Sitting alone , in the front of a box immediately opposite , but situated on the third row , was a woman of exquisite beauty , dressed in a Greek costume , which evidently , from the ease and grace with which she wore it , was her national attire .
The two men remained opposite one another , Morrel trembling in every limb , the stranger gazing at him with an air of profound pity .
“ Yes , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , lowering his voice , “ and you will pardon me , I hope , for having disturbed you when you know the importance of my business. ” “ Speak , then , I am all attention. ” “ It concerns nothing less , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ than the honor , perhaps the life of the queen. ” “ What did you say ? ” asked M. de Tréville , glancing round to see if they were surely alone , and then fixing his questioning look upon D ’ Artagnan .
At the moment he passed through the gateway into the street , the wind blew open the cloak in which he was wrapped , although it was in the month of August , and lifted his hat , which the traveler seized with his hand the moment it had left his head , pulling it eagerly over his eyes .
They wished only to be allowed to fall on their knees before their sovereign , and that they might move her to compassion ; but they were prevented by the royal guard and the queen proceeded on her way , haughtily disdainful of their entreaties .
“ Haydée had remained until the close of the meeting .
At the extremity of the building , on the contrary , he saw one of the three windows open .
Porthos told him of it in his calm manner .
Milady had , then , made a breach by her false virtue in the opinion of a man horribly prejudiced against her , and by her beauty in the heart of a man hitherto chaste and pure .
“ Thou seest , simpleton , ” said D ’ Artagnan to his servant , “ that they wished no harm to us. ” “ But to whom , then ? ” “ I ’ faith !
see how regularly I live and how easy I am here .
“ And now , ” said the duke , raising it still six inches higher , “ jump for the king. ” The dog obeyed and jumped quickly over the cane .
30 in the Avenue des Champs-Élysées .
“ Dear grandfather. ” said she hurriedly , “ you know poor grandmamma died an hour since , and now I have no friend in the world but you. ” His expressive eyes evinced the greatest tenderness .
“ Now go , ” returned Franz , “ or I shall go myself and bargain with your _affettatore_ , who is mine also ; he is an old friend of mine , who has plundered me pretty well already , and , in the hope of making more out of me , he will take a less price than the one I offer you ; you will lose the preference , and that will be your fault. ” “ Do not give yourselves the trouble , excellency , ” returned Signor Pastrini , with the smile peculiar to the Italian speculator when he confesses defeat ; “ I will do all I can , and I hope you will be satisfied. ” “ And now we understand each other. ” “ When do you wish the carriage to be here ? ” “ In an hour. ” “ In an hour it will be at the door. ” An hour after the vehicle was at the door ; it was a hack conveyance which was elevated to the rank of a private carriage in honor of the occasion , but , in spite of its humble exterior , the young men would have thought themselves happy to have secured it for the last three days of the Carnival .
Athos recognized his comrade , and phlegmatic as he was , he burst into a laugh which was quite excused by the strange masquerade before his eyes—petticoats falling over his shoes , sleeves tucked up , and mustaches stiff with agitation .
“ But what then must be done ? ” asked Morrel .
“ ‘ Given at Constantinople , by authority of his highness , in the year 1247 of the Hegira .
Two or three times , even , to the great astonishment of his friends , he had , when Aramis allowed some rudimental error to escape him , replaced a verb in its right tense and a noun in its case .
Edmond replaced on the table the bread he was about to devour , and returned to his couch—he did not wish to die .
Go and tell Laporte to wake and dress the king , and then pass on to the Marechal de Villeroy and summon him to me. ” Bernouin bowed and retired .
Albert , however , felt no less insulted ; the few lines which had irritated him were certainly intended as an insult .
You say , ‘ Excuse me , ’ and you believe that is sufficient ?
D ’ Artagnan saw it all through an opening he had made in the curtain , and in the very first man who entered he recognized Planchet .
The Third Attack Chapter 20 .
D ’ Artagnan donned the robe as quickly as he could , mistaking one sleeve for the other , so greatly was he still agitated .
M. Coquenard poured from a very small stone bottle the third of a glass for each of the young men , served himself in about the same proportion , and passed the bottle to Porthos and Mme .
Come , Guitant , come along , and let ’ s see if they keep watch at the Quinze-Vingts as at the Barriere des Sergens. ” And waving his hand to Comminges he rejoined D ’ Artagnan , who instantly put himself at the head of his troop , followed by the cardinal , Guitant and the rest of the escort .
The priest had a writing teacher at Rome make three alphabets—one large , one middling , and one small ; and pointed out to him that by the help of a sharp instrument he could trace the letters on a slate , and thus learn to write .
“ Then your excellency is going—— ” “ To the hotel. ” “ Casa Pastrini ! ” said the _cicerone_ to the coachman , and the carriage drove rapidly on .
In five minutes they arrived at the spot whence the noise had proceeded , and then restraining their horses , they advanced cautiously .
“ But still , if Albert be not so rich as Mademoiselle Danglars , ” said the count , “ you must allow that he has a fine name ? ” “ So he has ; but I like mine as well. ” “ Certainly ; your name is popular , and does honor to the title they have adorned it with ; but you are too intelligent not to know that according to a prejudice , too firmly rooted to be exterminated , a nobility which dates back five centuries is worth more than one that can only reckon twenty years. ” “ And for this very reason , ” said Danglars with a smile , which he tried to make sardonic , “ I prefer M. Andrea Cavalcanti to M. Albert de Morcerf. ” “ Still , I should not think the Morcerfs would yield to the Cavalcanti ? ” “ The Morcerfs ! —Stay , my dear count , ” said Danglars ; “ you are a man of the world , are you not ? ” “ I think so. ” “ And you understand heraldry ? ” “ A little. ” “ Well , look at my coat-of-arms , it is worth more than Morcerf ’ s. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because , though I am not a baron by birth , my real name is , at least , Danglars. ” “ Well , what then ? ” “ While his name is not Morcerf. ” “ How ? —not Morcerf ? ” “ Not the least in the world. ” “ Go on. ” “ I have been made a baron , so that I actually am one ; he made himself a count , so that he is not one at all. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ Listen my dear count ; M. de Morcerf has been my friend , or rather my acquaintance , during the last thirty years .
They descended , and advanced towards the clump of trees , and Morrel soon recognized the other gentleman as Doctor d ’ Avrigny .
What was most clear in the matter was that D ’ Artagnan loved Milady like a madman , and that she did not love him at all .
The second operation was as successful as the first , _La Jeune Amélie_ was in luck .
I have committed no crime .
You must try to see her , and have an explanation with her .
if we had been in their place ! ” “ Yes , they are wrong , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
He wished Bernajoux a speedy convalescence , took leave of M. de la Trémouille , returned to his hôtel , and immediately sent word to the four friends that he awaited their company at dinner .
“ No , no , ” answered Dantès ; “ don ’ t imagine I am going to put you off in that shabby manner .
“ Stop , let me show you the way. ” “ It is not worthwhile. ” “ Yes , it is. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because there is a little secret , a precaution I thought it desirable to take , one of Huret & Fichet ’ s locks , revised and improved by Gaspard Caderousse ; I will manufacture you a similar one when you are a capitalist. ” “ Thank you , ” said Andrea ; “ I will let you know a week beforehand. ” They parted .
Chapter 31 .
Doctor , pray recall your words ; you have said nothing , have you ? ” “ My dear M. de Villefort , ” replied the doctor , “ my first duty is to humanity .
Richelieu knew that in combating England he combated Buckingham ; that in triumphing over England he triumphed over Buckingham—in short , that in humiliating England in the eyes of Europe he humiliated Buckingham in the eyes of the queen .
She closed the door after her , took the duke by the hand , and after a few experimental steps , grasped a balustrade , put her foot upon the bottom step , and began to ascend the staircase .
“ ‘ Ah , true , ’ replied the jeweller , and he reset the stone .
She made no effort to remove her lips from his kisses ; only she did not respond to them .
“ Can I have been intercepted by French telegrams to the pontifical authorities ? ” He resolved to end his anxiety .
“ Go , leave me ; I would be alone .
Still , let it not be supposed that amid this affected resignation to the will of Providence , the unfortunate innkeeper did not writhe under the double misery of seeing the hateful canal carry off his customers and his profits , and the daily infliction of his peevish partner ’ s murmurs and lamentations .
Aramis made a presence of believing in the reality of her opposition and was unwilling to deprive himself in his own view of the credit of her conversion .
General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works 1.A .
“ You were always a merry companion , my dear D ’ Artagnan , ” he said , “ and your witty Gascon fancy has not deserted you .
I will , then , wait until the last moment , and when my misery is certain , irremediable , hopeless , I will write a confidential letter to my brother-in-law , another to the prefect of police , to acquaint them with my intention , and at the corner of some wood , on the brink of some abyss , on the bank of some river , I will put an end to my existence , as certainly as I am the son of the most honest man who ever lived in France. ” 30333m Valentine trembled convulsively ; she loosened her hold of the gate , her arms fell by her side , and two large tears rolled down her cheeks .
“ I am your prisoner , ” said Aramis , giving up his sword to Porthos .
The young man was thrown from the top of the rock ; the corpse was found on the bed next day , and the whole truth was guessed , for the men who performed the office then mentioned what they had not dared to speak of before , that at the moment the corpse was thrown into the deep , they heard a shriek , which was almost immediately stifled by the water in which it disappeared. ” The count breathed with difficulty ; the cold drops ran down his forehead , and his heart was full of anguish .
40054m “ Indeed , ” said Albert , “ it is exquisite ; it is impossible to understand the music of his country better than Prince Cavalcanti does .
We have parted company this long time ; all three have left the service. ” “ Where can you find them , then ? ” “ Wherever they are , that ’ s my business. ” “ Well , now , what are your conditions , if I employ you ? ” “ Money , my lord , as much money as what you wish me to undertake will require .
D ’ Artagnan went to take leave of M. de Tréville .
‘ M .
Dantès saluted Villefort and retired .
We four have got to master these eight fools and their stupid captain .
Lack-a-day !
We have therefore taken away monsieur le cardinal to my friend ’ s chateau and there we have come to an understanding .
0215m “ You have not seen all yet , ” continued Faria , “ for I did not think it wise to trust all my treasures in the same hiding-place .
Grimaud alone was calm as ever .
“ Order out the carriage , ” he said , “ and remove the pistols which are in the holsters .
When once in the saddle Grimaud reflected on two things ; first , that at the pace he was going his horse would not carry him ten miles , and secondly , that he had no money .
“ Aramis , ” he continued , “ was intimate with a young needlewoman from Tours , a cousin of his , named Marie Michon. ” “ Ah , I knew her ! ” cried the duchess .
It was useless .
Ah , Monsieur Bonacieux , I never did love you much , but now it is worse than ever .
“ Nothing , nothing !
In August we lost 300,000 francs at the beginning of the month , but on the 13th we made up for it , and we now find that our accounts , reckoning from the first day of partnership up to yesterday , when I closed them , showed a capital of 2,400,000 francs , that is , 1,200,000 for each of us .
1.E.6 .
The Story First , sir , ” said Caderousse , “ you must make me a promise. ” “ What is that ? ” inquired the abbé .
At this last thought Mercédès burst into a flood of tears , and wrung her hands in agony ; but the thought , which she had always repelled before when it was suggested to her by another , came now in full force upon her mind ; and then , too , old Dantès incessantly said to her , ‘ Our Edmond is dead ; if he were not , he would return to us. ’ “ The old man died , as I have told you ; had he lived , Mercédès , perchance , had not become the wife of another , for he would have been there to reproach her infidelity .
he is quite a child ! ” “ And ’ tis a child he loves. ” Athos became thoughtful .
How Mousqueton had a Narrow Escape of being eaten .
I congratulate you , my dear M. Danglars , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I see I was deceived , and that you belong to the class of second-rate fortunes. ” “ I think I may aspire to that honor , ” said Danglars with a smile , which reminded Monte Cristo of the sickly moons which bad artists are so fond of daubing into their pictures of ruins .
When you can find out a woman ’ s age by her face , it is useless to ask it ; when you can not do so , it is indiscreet. ” “ Is she beautiful ? ” “ Sixteen years ago she was deemed not only the prettiest , but the most graceful woman in France. ” This reply reassured the vicomte .
“ Will your excellency visit Saint Peter ’ s ? ” asked the _cicerone_ .
“ You are a simpleton , ” said Athos .
“ Report to the king the condition of affairs .
Athos followed him before the felucca rose again on the waves ; the cable which tied the boat to the vessel was then seen plainly rising out of the sea .
“ We bear witness to this , ” said the two Musketeers , with one voice .
“ Poor woman , poor woman , what have they done with you ? ” “ You have promised to be secret , my good monsieur ? ” said the old man .
Chapter LIX .
Ask his lackey how often he has had to prepare lint of him. ” “ Alas ! ” sighed Bazin .
Where is he ? ” “ Ill— ” “ Very ill , say you ?
Each stroke of the oar seemed to awaken a new throng of ideas , which sprang up with the flying spray of the sea .
Having accomplished these three social duties , Monte Cristo stopped , looking around him with that expression peculiar to a certain class , which seems to say , “ I have done my duty , now let others do theirs. ” Andrea , who was in an adjoining room , had shared in the sensation caused by the arrival of Monte Cristo , and now came forward to pay his respects to the count .
All the corps rivaled one another in audacity and gaiety .
Then he said aloud : “ You met him , I dare say , in the park—hunting , perhaps ? ” “ No ; nearer , nearer still .
The next morning King Charles I. was haled by a strong guard before the high court which was to judge him .
THE SIEGE OF LA ROCHELLE The Siege of La Rochelle was one of the great political events of the reign of Louis XIII. , and one of the great military enterprises of the cardinal .
“ Oh , sir ! ” Planchet only touched the tips of the count ’ s fingers .
How is it possible for a poor mercer , who detests Huguenots and who abhors Spaniards , to be accused of high treason ?
The night watch evinced the same terror , refused , in his turn , to accompany Athos , and only pointed with his hand to the road he was to take .
The cardinal reached a second door without perceiving he was being followed ; the sand with which the alleys were covered deadened the sound of footsteps .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied Franz .
“ I am waiting , my lord , till you tell me of what exploits you speak. ” “ I speak of the adventure—Eh , you know well what I mean. ” “ Alas , no , my lord ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , surprised .
On arriving at the extremity of the castle D ’ Artagnan found himself overlooking a beautiful valley , in which , at the foot of a charming little lake , stood several scattered houses , which , humble in their aspect , and covered , some with tiles , others with thatch , seemed to acknowledge as their sovereign lord a pretty chateau , built about the beginning of the reign of Henry IV. , and surmounted by four stately , gilded weather-cocks .
I am hardly nineteen ; I know nothing ; I have no part to play .
In what ? ” “ In a pate , for example. ” “ In a pate ? ” said La Ramee .
He approached the window , and saw his father get into it , and drive away .
His proper vocation had always been the sword and he was delighted whenever he could draw it from the scabbard , no matter for whom or against whom .
“ Well , ” said he , “ they likewise have refused me. ” “ That , dear friend , is because nobody is more worthy than yourself. ” He took a quill , wrote the name of D ’ Artagnan in the commission , and returned it to him .
Porthos made a thousand flourishes , asking Bicarat what o ’ clock it could be , and offering him his compliments upon his brother ’ s having just obtained a company in the regiment of Navarre ; but , jest as he might , he gained nothing .
He no doubt feared that by this opening she might still by some diabolical means corrupt her guards .
On reaching the jetty Athos and Aramis stopped to look at a little boat made fast to a pile and ready rigged as if waiting to start .
The new sentinel commenced his walk in the corridor .
“ Do you know , sir , ” asked the baroness , “ that you are improving ?
The _fêtes_ are veritable pleasure days to the Italians .
This cost me , on your account and mine , 100,000 francs .
You know I used to be a good cook ; do you recollect how you used to lick your fingers ?
Why , in the first place I gave you fifty. ” “ You think so ? ” “ _Pardieu ! _ ” “ Ah , that is true .
oh ! ” “ And do you know who is his lieutenant ? ” “ His lieutenant ?
The cardinal accompanied his Majesty from Surgères to Mauzes ; and there the king and his minister took leave of each other with great demonstrations of friendship .
You understand ? ” “ That is to say , I guess your wishes , and that is all that ’ s necessary , ” said Madeleine .
“ Count , ” said Emmanuel , when they were at the end of the Place Royale , “ put me down at my door , that my wife may not have a single moment of needless anxiety on my account or yours. ” “ If it were not ridiculous to make a display of our triumph , said Morrel , I would invite the count to our house ; besides that , he doubtless has some trembling heart to comfort .
He saw the deputation from the Parisians enter it ; they were coming to assign the definitive place for the conference and to make their bow to the queen .
“ Well ! ” replied La Ramee , “ your supper is ordered. ” “ Ah !
“ Monsieur Baptistin , ” said the count , “ you have been in my service one year , the time I generally give myself to judge of the merits or demerits of those about me .
“ My dear Beauchamp , I wish you to contradict this statement. ” Beauchamp looked at Albert with a benevolent expression .
1.E.2 .
M. Noirtier , who , on the previous night , was the old Jacobin , the old senator , the old Carbonaro , laughing at the guillotine , the cannon , and the dagger—M .
We dispense with your saying grace. ” Grimaud silently swallowed the glass of Bordeaux wine ; but his eyes , raised toward heaven during this delicious occupation , spoke a language which , though mute , was not the less expressive .
At this moment the same bell that had proclaimed the beginning of the mascherata sounded the retreat .
certainly , all four ; we couldn ’ t leave our prisoners , could we ? ” “ Ah !
“ Poor fellow ! ” remarked Danglars , affecting to pity the young man from the bottom of his heart .
It was her practice to pass hours either in her oratory or in her room , without either reading or praying .
“ Go on , ” said he .
This tension lessens the accuracy of the aim .
Save me ! —I will not harm you. ” “ Andrea , the murderer ! ” cried one of the ladies .
“ ‘ Sblood !
The procurator had without doubt been warned of his visit , as he expressed no surprise at the sight of Porthos , who advanced toward him with a sufficiently easy air , and saluted him courteously .
He watched them pass through the crowd for some time , but at length he lost sight of them in the Via Macello .
Hem ! ” said the king .
The grand manner of Athos had left its mark on Grimaud .
“ Up to this point , ” said Faria , interrupting the thread of his narrative , “ this seems to you very meaningless , no doubt , eh ? ” “ Oh , my friend , ” cried Dantès , “ on the contrary , it seems as if I were reading a most interesting narrative ; go on , I beg of you. ” “ I will .
Why , there is nothing improper in our conversation , my dear Planchet , and no one could find fault with it. ” “ Ah , monsieur ! ” replied Planchet , recurring to his besetting idea , “ that Monsieur Bonacieux has something vicious in his eyebrows , and something very unpleasant in the play of his lips. ” “ What the devil makes you think of Bonacieux ? ” “ Monsieur , we think of what we can , and not of what we will. ” “ Because you are a coward , Planchet. ” “ Monsieur , we must not confound prudence with cowardice ; prudence is a virtue. ” “ And you are very virtuous , are you not , Planchet ? ” “ Monsieur , is not that the barrel of a musket which glitters yonder ?
Capricious and unfaithful , the king wished to be called Louis the Just and Louis the Chaste .
Send the guards to take their meal in the canteen of Monsieur de Chavigny ; we ’ ll have a supper here under your direction. ” “ Hum ! ” said La Ramee .
Discontent had long pervaded the lower ranks of society in France .
It was just two o ’ clock by Albert ’ s watch when the two friends entered into the dancing-room .
That was the question the three Musketeers put to one another .
“ Sir , ” said he , “ I am chief clerk of the house of Thomson & French , of Rome .
However ill our two friends were mounted , they were soon far in advance of their servants , and arrived at Crèvecœur .
Bonacieux , starting .
For my part , I wash my hands of the affair. ” So saying , she once more climbed the staircase leading to her chamber , her body convulsed with chills , and her teeth rattling in her head , in spite of the intense heat of the weather .
He applied his imitative powers to everything , and , like Giotto , when young , he drew on his slate sheep , houses , and trees .
“ Well ! ” exclaimed the queen , who remarked this movement and his paleness .
The host desired himself to serve him ; which D ’ Artagnan perceiving , ordered two glasses to be brought , and commenced the following conversation .
You are the son of the Marchese Cavalcanti and the Marchesa Oliva Corsinari .
Athos turned pale .
Monsieur Mordaunt dislikes you sufficiently not to refuse you afterward .
“ I am sorry to say I must do so , madame , I only came to remind you of your promise for Saturday. ” “ Did you fear that we should forget it ? ” “ You are very good , madame , but M. de Villefort has so many important and urgent occupations. ” “ My husband has given me his word , sir , ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ you have just seen him resolve to keep it when he has everything to lose , and surely there is more reason for his doing so where he has everything to gain. ” “ And , ” said Villefort , “ is it at your house in the Champs-Élysées that you receive your visitors ? ” “ No , ” said Monte Cristo , “ which is precisely the reason which renders your kindness more meritorious , —it is in the country. ” “ In the country ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Where is it , then ?
“ Come with me , my friend , ” said the Englishman ; “ I wish to speak to you. ” Chapter 30 .
I was so bewildered by your departure and so overcome with grief at our separation , that I am sure I was able to but very feebly express all the affection and gratitude I feel toward you .
The Shade of Cardinal Richelieu .
At last , one day , when for the hundredth time I took up my spade , I asked myself again and again what the Corsican could have done with the child .
It is the work of another age , constructed by the genii of earth and water. ” “ How so ? —at what period can that have been ? ” “ I do not know ; I have only heard that an emperor of China had an oven built expressly , and that in this oven twelve jars like this were successively baked .
My funds are deposited there , and you can understand that if I draw out ten millions on the same day it will appear rather strange to the governor .
Whither goes she ? ” added he , strongly interested in the route Milady followed .
“ Tell me , I entreat of you , who and what you are ? ” said he at length .
That we may be more at our ease , La Ramee removes the guards , keeping only Grimaud to wait on us .
Valentine promised all that Morrel required of her , and certainly it was less difficult now for her to believe that she should marry Maximilian than it was an hour ago to assure herself that she should not marry Franz .
Ah , yes , about a year after the disappearance of his son the poor old man died. ” “ Of what did he die ? ” “ Why , the doctors called his complaint gastro-enteritis , I believe ; his acquaintances say he died of grief ; but I , who saw him in his dying moments , I say he died of—— ” Caderousse paused .
Dantès might have waited until the evening visit was over , but he was afraid that the governor would change his mind , and order the dead body to be removed earlier .
The spit turned , the stove roared , the pretty Madeleine wept ; D ’ Artagnan felt himself invaded by hunger , cold and love .
“ Alas ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , with the most sentimental air he could assume , “ can you be cruel enough to put such a question to me—to me , who , from the moment I saw you , have only breathed and sighed through you and for you ? ” Milady smiled with a strange smile .
Not the least in the world. ” “ Oh , you do quite right , monsieur. ” “ But why this question ? ” “ Because , while you were talking with him , I watched you without listening to you ; and , monsieur , his countenance changed color two or three times ! ” “ Bah ! ” “ Preoccupied as Monsieur was with the letter he had received , he did not observe that ; but I , whom the strange fashion in which that letter came into the house had placed on my guard—I did not lose a movement of his features. ” “ And you found it ? ” “ Traitorous , monsieur. ” “ Indeed ! ” “ Still more ; as soon as Monsieur had left and disappeared round the corner of the street , Monsieur Bonacieux took his hat , shut his door , and set off at a quick pace in an opposite direction. ” “ It seems you are right , Planchet ; all this appears to be a little mysterious ; and be assured that we will not pay him our rent until the matter shall be categorically explained to us. ” “ Monsieur jests , but Monsieur will see. ” “ What would you have , Planchet ?
“ Alas , ” returned Villefort , “ I must ! ” “ Where , then , are you going ? ” asked the marquise .
No ; how would you have me know ? ” Parry bent his head and whispered to the king : “ It is the Comte de la Fere and his friends. ” “ Raising my scaffold ! ” cried the king , astounded .
He did not take in the paper containing the defamatory article , and had passed the morning in writing letters and in trying a horse .
“ Alas , I have them no longer ! ” “ How is it that you have no friends in your prosperity when you had many in adversity ? ” “ It is because in my prosperity I forgot those old friends , monsieur ; because I have acted like Queen Marie de Medicis , who , returning from her first exile , treated with contempt all those who had suffered for her and , being proscribed a second time , died at Cologne abandoned by every one , even by her own son. ” “ Well , let us see , ” said Mazarin ; “ isn ’ t there still time to repair the evil ?
He turned and saw Julie .
“ Young Edward ! ” A burst of laughter from the auditors did not in the least disconcert the speaker , who continued , — “ Yes , gentlemen ; Edward , the infant phenomenon , who is quite an adept in the art of killing. ” “ You are jesting. ” “ Not at all .
Have men loved me ?
Dantès , though almost sure as to what course the vessel would take , had yet watched it anxiously until it tacked and stood towards him .
When the sergeant on entering the room announced that in all probability he was bringing in two Mazarinists , it appeared to be the unanimous opinion of the officers on guard that they ought not to pass .
I suppose the count has the tastes of the day ? ” “ To be sure , ” returned Monte Cristo ; “ it is very convenient , then ? ” “ It is more—it is magnificent. ” “ _Peste ! _ let us not lose such an opportunity , ” returned Monte Cristo .
D ’ Artagnan opened the letter and read as follows : This is the third time I have written to you to tell you that I love you .
“ Oh , my God ! ” said Mme .
Occasionally , by the light of a flash of lightning which gleamed along the horizon , the road stretched itself before them , white and solitary ; the flash extinct , all remained in darkness .
Come , Athos and Aramis , go to the right ; Porthos , come with me to the left ; these gentlemen should file off into Normandy , whilst we , by the nearest road , reach Paris. ” He then gave his friends minute directions as to their route .
“ Stop a moment , ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ pray how many men have you on board , captain ? ” “ I don ’ t understand , ” was the reply .
The decanter was nearly full , with the exception of a little , which had been already drunk by M. Noirtier .
In 2001 , the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations .
“ Certainly that is most in accord with your own principles , ” replied Milady , frigidly .
While working night and day , I sometimes lose all recollection of the past , and then I experience the same sort of happiness I can imagine the dead feel ; still , it is better than suffering. ” “ But , sir , he has fled ; let him escape—inaction is a pardonable offence. ” “ I tell you it is too late ; early this morning the telegraph was employed , and at this very minute—— ” “ Sir , ” said the valet de chambre , entering the room , “ a dragoon has brought this despatch from the Minister of the Interior. ” Villefort seized the letter , and hastily broke the seal .
When Madame de Beauvais appeared at the door and announced the cardinal , the child , who had been absorbed in the pages of Quintus Curtius , enlivened as they were by engravings of Alexander ’ s feats of arms , frowned and looked at his mother .
“ You do not , madame ; at least , I hope not .
“ Your excellency , ” said Peppino , addressing the count , “ if you will follow me , the opening of the catacombs is close at hand. ” “ Go on , then , ” replied the count .
That pale face and flaming glance appeared to Villefort like a frightful apparition .
It is the password .
A burning fire , a red-hot iron , the iron of the executioner , was imprinted on my shoulder. ” Felton uttered a groan .
I am afraid he has turned out ill , ” she added .
Thus we have exchanged ideas and no one has seen us do it. ” “ The devil it does !
“ The cardinal ’ s , ” replied Mme .
But how is it he is not already returned ?
Danglars left ?
So then— ” “ So then , pack up our luggage , Planchet , and let us be off .
“ Maximilian goes with _me_ , ” said the count , in his kindest and most persuasive manner ; “ therefore do not make yourself uneasy on your brother ’ s account. ” “ Once more farewell , my dear sister ; Emmanuel , adieu ! ” Morrel repeated .
“ But if it is a woman who writes , ” said Aramis , “ and that woman desires not to be seen , remember , you compromise her , D ’ Artagnan ; which is not the part of a gentleman. ” “ We will remain in the background , ” said Porthos , “ and he will advance alone. ” “ Yes ; but a pistol shot is easily fired from a carriage which goes at a gallop. ” “ Bah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ they will miss me ; if they fire we will ride after the carriage , and exterminate those who may be in it .
Why , to converse with him , of course .
Whence came the blow ?
You were among the first who tasted any of my dishes , and I think you relished them tolerably. ” While speaking , Caderousse went on peeling a fresh supply of onions .
My heart is that of a Musketeer ; I feel it , monsieur , and that impels me on. ” “ Withdraw , young man , ” cried Jussac , who doubtless , by his gestures and the expression of his countenance , had guessed D ’ Artagnan ’ s design .
You would think they felt some remorse ; did you ever remark that ? ” “ Ah , depreciate other persons ’ dinners ; you ministers give such splendid ones. ” “ Yes ; but we do not invite people of fashion .
That gentleman , your friend , defended himself desperately .
“ Ah , madame , ” said Comminges , hastening to D ’ Artagnan , “ here is one who can tell you better than myself , for he was my protector .
I say that he is ill-informed .
I may sleep , perhaps , at an inn. ” Pierre obeyed .
Take care that no misfortune befalls you when you leave. ” “ I thank your majesty , ” said Aramis , “ but under these robes I have a coat of mail , a pistol and a dagger. ” “ Go , then , sir , and God keep you ! ” The king accompanied him to the door , where Aramis pronounced his benediction upon him , and passing through the ante-rooms , filled with soldiers , jumped into his carriage and drove to the bishop ’ s palace .
My profession condemns me to celibacy .
M. de Boville said nothing , but nodded his head , and took up the portfolio .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is not rich and has need of his position as lieutenant to enable him to live .
Three cries for help came more distinctly to his ear .
As to the poisoner , they had heard no tidings of her whatever , only that she must have made her escape through the garden , on the sand of which her footsteps could be traced , and the door of which had been found shut .
During this time Mazarin walked up and down the study , glancing from time to time at his beautiful Venetian mirror , starred in every direction .
“ To me , to you , to us !
Chapter 76 .
But that is not all—after rescuing me from the sword , he rescued me from the cold , not by sharing his cloak with me , like St. Martin , but by giving me the whole ; then from hunger by sharing with me—guess what ? ” “ A Strasbourg pie ? ” asked Beauchamp .
“ Listen !
This time the gentleman closed his eyes and fainted .
The queen saving us , her friends ; nothing more moral .
After having sought for a few minutes , he stopped at a leaf which had several notes , and compared them with the deed of sale , which lay on the table , and recalling his _souvenirs_— “ ‘ Auteuil , Rue de la Fontaine , No .
At this moment Grimaud returned , accompanied by Planchet ; the latter , anxious about his master and curious to know what had happened to him , had taken advantage of the opportunity and brought the garments himself .
But drink some of this ; ” and the count took a bottle from his pocket , containing a red liquid , of which he poured a few drops into the glass .
He told me he knew nothing about the matter , that the orders I had received did not come from him , and that if I had the audacity to mention his name as being concerned in this disturbance he would have me hanged .
It was thus with Milady .
“ No , no ; I am here , ” said the monk , quickly coming back to him .
All I ask is , that Villefort will be firm and inflexible for the future in his political principles .
“ In the whole house , ” said Friquet ; “ the house belongs to him ; he occupies the second floor when he works and descends to the first to take his meals ; he must be at dinner now ; it is noon. ” “ Good , ” said Comminges .
yes , kill them ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ I see fresh tracks ; ’ tis not a quarter of an hour since they passed this place. ” In fact , the road was trodden by horses ’ feet , visible even in the approaching gloom of evening .
Andrea read in a low voice : “ ‘ You are poor ; a miserable old age awaits you .
The lackeys followed their masters , and the chamber was left solitary , with its broken window , its open door , and its smoky lamp burning sadly on the table .
Oh , no , sir ; from my childhood I have seen too much , and understood too much , of what has passed around me , for misfortune to have an undue power over me .
D ’ Artagnan came again on the morrow and the day after that , and each day Milady gave him a more gracious reception .
Three compartments divided the coffer .
All this showed D ’ Artagnan that there was a veil which concealed something ; but he could not yet see under this veil .
Why , that is a fortune ! ” Porthos made a most significant grimace ; Mme .
Athos and he exchanged some words in a low voice , then the tall man made a sign to the Musketeer that he might come in .
The doctor left him in this paroxysm , knowing that he could do nothing to alleviate it , and , going up to Noirtier , said abruptly : “ How do you find yourself ? —well ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Have you any weight on the chest ; or does your stomach feel light and comfortable—eh ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Then you feel pretty much as you generally do after you have had the dose which I am accustomed to give you every Sunday ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Did Barrois make your lemonade ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Was it you who asked him to drink some of it ? ” “ No. ” “ Was it M. de Villefort ? ” “ No. ” “ Madame ? ” “ No. ” “ It was your granddaughter , then , was it not ? ” “ Yes. ” A groan from Barrois , accompanied by a yawn which seemed to crack the very jawbones , attracted the attention of M. d ’ Avrigny ; he left M. Noirtier , and returned to the sick man .
There was no one like him for that. ” “ And now , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ behold the sad spectacle that awaits us .
this way ! ” “ Constance ?
“ ‘ Are you mad , uncle ? ’ ( he called me by this name when he was in good humor ) ; ‘ do you think I am going to change the life I lead for your mode of existence—my agreeable indolence for the hard and precarious toil you impose on yourself , exposed to the bitter frost at night , and the scorching heat by day , compelled to conceal yourself , and when you are perceived , receive a volley of bullets , all to earn a paltry sum ?
Edmond ’ s hair stood on end , and he rose to his knees .
Mistrust everybody , your friend , your brother , your mistress—your mistress above all. ” D ’ Artagnan blushed .
Is it my fault if fortune , which has frowned on you , has been kind to me ? ” “ Fortune has been kind to you , then ?
In that way I discovered that the charming traveler was—— ” “ Marie Michon ! ” said Madame de Chevreuse , hastily .
“ Oh , yes it is you indeed !
At last : “ Do you imagine , ” he resumed , “ that they mean to kill you ?
D ’ Artagnan owned nothing .
“ No , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ no , I confess it .
True , they could send for the headsman of the nearest town , but at least a day would be gained , and a day might be sufficient for the rescue .
Scarcely was the count alone , when he drew from his pocket a book closed with a lock , and opened it with a key which he wore round his neck , and which never left him .
“ Besides , ” said Aramis , “ God desires the conversion and not the death of a sinner. ” “ Amen ! ” said Athos , “ and we will return to that subject later , if such be your pleasure ; but what for the moment engaged my attention most earnestly , and I am sure you will understand me , D ’ Artagnan , was the getting from this woman a kind of _carte blanche_ which she had extorted from the cardinal , and by means of which she could with impunity get rid of you and perhaps of us. ” “ But this creature must be a demon ! ” said Porthos , holding out his plate to Aramis , who was cutting up a fowl .
“ Nothing broken ? ” asked De Guiche .
“ I insult you ! ” said Lord de Winter , with contempt .
He then tried to draw him from his moist abode , but to his surprise he perceived that Athos staggered .
Never ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Mme .
a real father ? ” “ Yes , so long as he pays me—— ” “ You ’ ll honor and believe him—that ’ s right .
I sounded all the walls , in the hopes of discovering a door , but everywhere the walls returned a full and flat sound .
Neither was it , as with our neighbors , the English , an atmospheric influence which darkened his countenance ; for the sadness generally became more intense toward the fine season of the year .
Tell me what this Count of Monte Cristo has done for you. ” 30157m “ I own that your question embarrasses me , Valentine , for I can not say that the count has rendered me any ostensible service .
The breaking of his jug was too natural an accident to excite suspicion .
He appeared calm , but it was evidently not without a mighty effort .
“ Yes , my dear father , and with your permission , now I have seen you , and know you are well and have all you require , I will ask your consent to go and pay a visit to the Catalans. ” “ Go , my dear boy , ” said old Dantès ; “ and Heaven bless you in your wife , as it has blessed me in my son ! ” “ His wife ! ” said Caderousse ; “ why , how fast you go on , father Dantès ; she is not his wife yet , as it seems to me. ” “ No , but according to all probability she soon will be , ” replied Edmond .
Have you anything to ask of me ?
“ Go , ” he added , “ and make yourself agreeable to Monsieur la Ramee , and tell him that you suit me in all respects. ” Grimaud had every quality that could attract a man on duty who wishes to have a deputy .
Now let us everyone retire to his own home , ” said D ’ Artagnan , as if he had done nothing but command all his life ; “ and attention !
Then I will add two words about the young Greek girl. ” Monte Cristo motioned him to be silent .
Mademoiselle de Villefort may retire during the prescribed three months to her estate of Saint-Méran ; I say hers , for she inherits it today .
“ Most decidedly , ” said he , “ men are not equal , and I must beg my father to develop this theorem in the Chamber of Peers. ” Chapter 42 .
Pardon me , my friend. ” “ We will see about that presently , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with a slight smile .
“ Because tomorrow , Haydée , you will be free ; you will then assume your proper position in society , for I will not allow my destiny to overshadow yours .
; in three days M. Bertuccio planted an entirely bare court with poplars , large spreading sycamores to shade the different parts of the house , and in the foreground , instead of the usual paving-stones , half hidden by the grass , there extended a lawn but that morning laid down , and upon which the water was yet glistening .
He took his key and candle and went upstairs to his bedroom .
At length Athos , after serious reflection and becoming more pale than usual , made a sign of assent to D ’ Artagnan , who by it understood he was at liberty to speak .
The escort divided into two files .
Ah , a thousand thanks , count , for not having forgotten your promise. ” And the young officer shook the count ’ s hand so warmly , that Monte Cristo could not be mistaken as to the sincerity of his joy , and he saw that he had been expected with impatience , and was received with pleasure .
Grimaud rose and obeyed .
“ An explanation at the Opera ? ” said the count , with that calm tone and penetrating eye which characterize the man who knows his cause is good .
“ Are you ready ? ” asked Felton .
It is a veritable army ! ” “ My faith , yes , ” said Athos ; “ there they are .
If you received the work on a physical medium , you must return the medium with your written explanation .
CAPTIVITY : THE FOURTH DAY The next day , when Felton entered Milady ’ s apartment he found her standing , mounted upon a chair , holding in her hands a cord made by means of torn cambric handkerchiefs , twisted into a kind of rope one with another , and tied at the ends .
As I came into the public room , I saw one of our Englishman bargaining with a dealer for a horse , his own having died yesterday from bleeding .
“ Sir , ” began Raoul , with his usual politeness , “ are you an ecclesiastic ? ” “ Why do you ask me that ? ” replied the stranger , with a coolness which was barely civil .
As I am of the church , and the affair might injure me if I should share it with any other than a sure friend like you , I write to beg that you will serve me as second .
This silence , self-control , and struggle lasted about twenty seconds , then the count raised his pallid face .
“ It is you , Bernouin , ” she said .
He was a simple-looking lawyer ’ s clerk , elevated to the extraordinary dignity of a provincial scrivener .
M. d ’ Épinay must say that he is shocked and astonished that M. de Villefort , who appeared to be aware of all the circumstances detailed this morning , should not have anticipated him in this announcement. ” No one who had seen the magistrate at this moment , so thoroughly unnerved by the recent inauspicious combination of circumstances , would have supposed for an instant that he had anticipated the annoyance ; although it certainly never had occurred to him that his father would carry candor , or rather rudeness , so far as to relate such a history .
The other drank it only by accident , and , although Barrois is dead , it was Noirtier whose death was wished for. ” “ But why did it not kill my father ? ” “ I told you one evening in the garden after Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s death—because his system is accustomed to that very poison , and the dose was trifling to him , which would be fatal to another ; because no one knows , not even the assassin , that , for the last twelve months , I have given M. Noirtier brucine for his paralytic affection , while the assassin is not ignorant , for he has proved that brucine is a violent poison. ” “ Oh , have pity—have pity ! ” murmured Villefort , wringing his hands .
Well , I tell you I will not drag my daughter before a tribunal , and give her up to the executioner !
He cast a rapid glance around the room , and perceived that one of his men was missing .
His eye wandered to a long stout sword on his flank and he instinctively slipped it around within reach of his right hand .
“ Therefore , ” said Monte Cristo feigning to mistake his meaning— “ therefore I will not , for another instant , retard the pleasure of your meeting .
“ I have another commission for you , M. Bertuccio , ” said he ; “ I am desirous of having an estate by the seaside in Normandy—for instance , between Le Havre and Boulogne .
I am the bearer of a letter , that is all .
A long cloak of crimson velvet fell in graceful folds from his shoulders , disclosing in front the splendid baldric , from which was suspended a gigantic rapier .
But he will make it up in you I am sure .
He did not speak , but showed the paper to Dantès .
“ Oh ! ” cried Mme .
“ Well , if any misfortune happen to me , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ I wish my daughter to be happy. ” Haydée smiled sorrowfully , and shook her head .
The same had been done for the queen and Madame the President .
I shall fight heart and soul for Mazarin ; but—— ” “ But ? ” “ But he must make me a baron. ” “ Zounds ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that ’ s settled already ; I will be responsible for the barony. ” On this promise being given , Porthos , who had never doubted his friend ’ s assurance , turned back with him toward the castle .
At the turning of the counterscarp they found themselves within about sixty paces of the bastion .
“ Yes , ” said she , “ it is Madame Danglars and her daughter , who have come to call on us .
“ Listen , ” said the doctor ; “ I know the full importance of the statement I have just made , and the disposition of the man to whom I have made it. ” “ Do you speak to me as a magistrate or as a friend ? ” asked Villefort .
In the position in which Raoul lay , unfortunately , he could neither draw his sword from the scabbard , nor his pistols from their holsters .
“ You know one can not change his nature , ” he said .
Keep the struggle for yourself , bear all the suffering , but spare her the trial of poverty which must accompany your first efforts ; for she deserves not even the shadow of the misfortune which has this day fallen on her , and Providence is not willing that the innocent should suffer for the guilty .
This space passed , Mme .
The eyes of Porthos were furtively cast upon this lady , and then roved about at large over the nave .
Chapter 12 .
Noirtier made a sign that he wished to speak .
As to the gentleman , he resumed his place at the window , and surveyed the crowd with a certain impatience , evidently annoyed by their remaining undispersed .
Jacopo dived into the hold and soon returned with what Edmond wanted .
I believe I saw him mount a gray horse and leave the palace court .
Then he resumed in his turn : “ Discipline , Monseigneur , has , I hope , in no way been forgotten by us .
Suddenly he felt the fresh and sharp night air , and Dantès knew that the mistral was blowing .
If you are young , I will be your comrade ; if you are old , I will be your son .
“ I must positively find out who and what he is , ” said Franz , rising from his seat .
The two friends looked to the right , to the left ; they were encompassed by a troop of horsemen .
When we arrived about thirty paces from them the prince turned around to the soldiers : ‘ Comrades , ’ he said , ‘ you are about to suffer a furious discharge ; but after that you will make short work with those fellows. ’ There was such dead silence that friends and enemies could have heard these words ; then raising his sword , ‘ Sound trumpets ! ’ he cried. ” “ Well , very good ; you will do as much when the opportunity occurs , will you , Raoul ? ” “ I know not , sir , but I thought it really very fine and grand ! ” “ Were you afraid , Raoul ? ” asked the count .
Oh , how happy you must be in not having either wife or children ! ” “ Do you think so ? ” “ Indeed I do. ” “ And so Mademoiselle Danglars—— ” “ She could not endure the insult offered to us by that wretch , so she asked permission to travel. ” “ And is she gone ? ” “ The other night she left. ” “ With Madame Danglars ? ” “ No , with a relation .
Bowing under the weight of twenty-four years ’ reminiscences , he thought not of Albert , of Beauchamp , of Château-Renaud , or of any of that group ; but he thought of that courageous woman who had come to plead for her son ’ s life , to whom he had offered his , and who had now saved it by the revelation of a dreadful family secret , capable of destroying forever in that young man ’ s heart every feeling of filial piety .
“ Well , ” said Gondy , “ have you kept your word with me ? ” “ Not exactly , ” replied the mendicant .
The murdered man lay on the floor , his head leaning against the wall , and about him was a pool of blood which poured forth from three large wounds in his breast ; there was a fourth gash , in which a long table knife was plunged up to the handle .
D ’ Artagnan , still unperceived , supported himself against the other side .
It is a miracle , it is a providence that we have not been discovered .
In a moment he restrained himself so powerfully that the tempestuous heaving of his breast subsided , as turbulent and foaming waves yield to the sun ’ s genial influence when the cloud has passed .
Here , after a short conference , they proposed to separate .
“ Does your majesty wish me to drop the subject ? ” “ By no means , my dear duke ; but just stretch out your hand. ” “ Which ? ” “ Whichever you please—there to the left. ” “ Here , sire ? ” “ I tell you to the left , and you are looking to the right ; I mean on my left—yes , there .
Perhaps you will think , sir , that prosperity has spoiled me ? ” “ Art thou happy , friend ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Informed of what had passed by the presence of the cardinal and the alteration in the king ’ s countenance , M. de Tréville felt himself something like Samson before the Philistines .
“ The evening came on , and with it darkness ; but however profound was this darkness , my eyes began to accustom themselves to it .
If my pardon be complete , we shall return triumphant to Yanina ; if the news be inauspicious , we must fly this night. ’ — ‘ But supposing our enemy should not allow us to do so ? ’ said my mother .
A rapid change took place in the young man ’ s feelings .
But do you happen to belong to him ? ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” replied Athos , “ is in the service ; he is a soldier and obeys all constitutional authority .
“ Bridle in mouth ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
And then our Gascon , with that large quantity of conceit which we know he possessed , compared himself with De Wardes , and asked himself why , after all , he should not be beloved for himself ?
“ He is a musician. ” “ So are all Italians. ” “ Come , count , you do not do that young man justice. ” “ Well , I acknowledge it annoys me , knowing your connection with the Morcerf family , to see him throw himself in the way. ” Danglars burst out laughing .
Then , in the evening , I shall go to the theatre ; I shall look like some retired baker .
“ A physician , a physician , —M .
He ran towards her .
D ’ Artagnan thought of all these matters .
The count came towards him .
If anyone wishes to stop us , I will show Monsieur de Tréville ’ s letter , and you will show your leaves of absence .
We need not say which portion of the garden was her favorite walk .
“ When I hear misfortunes named , madame , ” he said , “ I have within the last few months contracted the bad habit of thinking of my own , and then I can not help drawing up an egotistical parallel in my mind .
You will perhaps smile at me when I tell you that , ever since I have known this man , I have involuntarily entertained the idea that all the good fortune which has befallen me originated from him .
“ What more is to be done ? ” “ I will do whatever is necessary. ” This assurance delighted Morrel , who took leave of Villefort , and hastened to announce to old Dantès that he would soon see his son .
“ That ’ s love , or I don ’ t know what love is. ” “ Come , ” said Danglars , “ you appear to me a good sort of fellow , and hang me , I should like to help you , but—— ” “ Yes , ” said Caderousse , “ but how ? ” “ My dear fellow , ” replied Danglars , “ you are three parts drunk ; finish the bottle , and you will be completely so .
“ If your excellencies will please to be seated , ” said the man , “ I will let the count know that you are here. ” And with these words he disappeared behind one of the tapestried _portières_ .
Morrel expected Villefort would be dejected ; he found him as he had found him six weeks before , calm , firm , and full of that glacial politeness , that most insurmountable barrier which separates the well-bred from the vulgar man .
We must play the game to the end , and consent to be blindfolded. ” “ Ah , you shall see ; I promise you I will sustain my part to admiration. ” “ I never once doubted your doing so. ” Monte Cristo chose this moment for re-entering the drawing-room .
pity me !
This order I believe I have accomplished with all the exactness of a soldier , but also with the courtesy of a gentleman .
The following Sunday , then , the Parisians arose with joy ; at that period a Te Deum was a grand affair ; this kind of ceremony had not then been abused and it produced a great effect .
Athos and D ’ Artagnan , with the activity of two soldiers and the knowledge of two connoisseurs , hardly required three hours to purchase the entire equipment of the Musketeer .
Besides , you have made an eternal friend of Madame de Villefort. ” The count bowed , and contented himself with seeing Villefort to the door of his cabinet , the procureur being escorted to his carriage by two footmen , who , on a signal from their master , followed him with every mark of attention .
Get up ! ” He continued his way toward the Quai des Grands Augustins , while the two friends went to ring at the bell of the unfortunate Porthos .
D ’ Artagnan did not know where he was , and wished himself a hundred feet underground .
“ I will not sign this order !
D ’ Artagnan employed himself in arranging a little plan , of which we shall hereafter see the execution , and which promised him some agreeable adventure , as might be seen by the smiles which from time to time passed over his countenance , whose thoughtfulness they animated .
They threatened me with torture .
And Athos ? ” “ I have not yet seen him .
There was no more to be had in Saint Germain .
Suddenly the jailer entered .
were I but a Frenchman !
Villefort ’ s dusty garb , his costume , which was not of courtly cut , excited the susceptibility of M. de Brezé , who was all astonishment at finding that this young man had the audacity to enter before the king in such attire .
20301m “ Our expedition made a favorable beginning .
My husband was a great friend , in 1814 or 1815 , of a sailor named Edmond Dantès .
Then he offered us our liberty and we accepted it .
This appeared to be a favorable opportunity to repair his intrusion .
Two hours afterwards he came on deck , as the boat was about to double the Island of Elba .
“ Your majesty has given me the control of this business ; we had better wait and see what they want. ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” “ I will answer for everything. ” Nothing is so catching as confidence .
“ I will give you three , ” replied the stranger .
For example , you see these two fish ; one brought from fifty leagues beyond St. Petersburg , the other five leagues from Naples .
“ Then draw down your hat , sire , that he may not discover the substitution. ” “ Ah ! ” said Athos , “ how much time we have lost. ” “ Now , ” said the king , “ give the word and let us start. ” “ Will you not give it , sire ? ” asked Athos .
Monsieur de Beaufort made the experiment a third time , but by this time Pistache ’ s patience was exhausted ; he threw himself furiously upon the cane , wrested it from the hands of the prince and broke it with his teeth .
It would be difficult to describe the state of stupor in which Villefort left the Palais .
Lord de Winter came toward five o ’ clock in the evening .
Meanwhile Monte Cristo had rapidly taken off his greatcoat , waistcoat , and shirt , and one might distinguish by the glimmering through the open panel that he wore a pliant tunic of steel mail , of which the last in France , where daggers are no longer dreaded , was worn by King Louis XVI. , who feared the dagger at his breast , and whose head was cleft with a hatchet .
He can not pardon her the history of the Saraband .
Satisfied with this discovery which confirmed all his suspicions , Athos returned to the hôtel , and found Planchet impatiently waiting for him .
“ I will not talk. ” “ Here is the knife , ” said Felton , drawing from his pocket the weapon which he had brought , according to his promise , but which he hesitated to give to his prisoner .
Whence it came no one knew , and it spoke an unknown tongue .
Villefort , becoming somewhat reassured , perceived that to avert the maternal storm gathering over his head , he must inspire Madame Danglars with the terror he felt .
Monsieur , if she has escaped , it is not my fault , I swear. ” “ What business had you , then , to go into the chamber of Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , your neighbor , with whom you had a long conference during the day ? ” “ Ah , yes , Monsieur Commissary ; yes , that is true , and I confess that I was in the wrong .
He was soon ordered to the presence of the cardinal .
There were two palaces and a vineyard behind the Palatine Hill ; but in these days landed property had not much value , and the two palaces and the vineyard remained to the family since they were beneath the rapacity of the pope and his son .
that ’ s unworthy .
In half an hour La Ramee returned , full of glee , like most men who have eaten , and more especially drank to their heart ’ s content .
Meanwhile , all things considered and notwithstanding his suspicions , as the wound might be serious , he immediately sent off a mounted man to find a physician .
“ Well , there , sir , is another proof that good people are never rewarded on this earth , and that none but the wicked prosper .
Oh , you know it , tell them , tell them ! ” And the young man ’ s voice was choked by sobs .
He is a man of from fifty to fifty-two years of age , dark , with black eyes covered with shaggy eyebrows , and a thick moustache .
While thinking and walking , Athos passed and repassed before the pipe of the stove , broken in halves , the other extremity passing into the chamber above ; and every time he passed and repassed he heard a murmur of words , which at length fixed his attention .
So you see , my dear friend , that if you are not in a hurry , I am very much in a hurry. ” Aramis held out his hand in a cordial manner to his young companion , and took leave of him .
“ Now what is vague is doubtful ; and it was a wise man who said , ‘ when in doubt , keep out. ’ ” “ Meaning to say , ” rejoined Monte Cristo , “ that however Thomson & French may be inclined to commit acts of imprudence and folly , the Baron Danglars is not disposed to follow their example. ” “ Not at all. ” “ Plainly enough ; Messrs. Thomson & French set no bounds to their engagements while those of M. Danglars have their limits ; he is a wise man , according to his own showing. ” “ Monsieur , ” replied the banker , drawing himself up with a haughty air , “ the extent of my resources has never yet been questioned. ” “ It seems , then , reserved for me , ” said Monte Cristo coldly , “ to be the first to do so. ” “ By what right , sir ? ” “ By right of the objections you have raised , and the explanations you have demanded , which certainly must have some motive. ” Once more Danglars bit his lips .
And , as though to add to the daily misery which this prosperous canal inflicted on the unfortunate innkeeper , whose utter ruin it was fast accomplishing , it was situated between the Rhône from which it had its source and the post-road it had depleted , not a hundred steps from the inn , of which we have given a brief but faithful description .
A night is soon passed ; and tomorrow to the wheel , to the gallows !
See paragraph 1.C below .
We are gentlemen ; we are , both of us , able to kill you and your eight men—we two only .
I must not be cast down by the discovery that I have been deceived .
“ Why do you remember when it forgets ?
“ I answer for his consent. ” “ How soon can he be here ? ” “ In five days. ” “ Let him come and he will find a change , I will answer for it. ” “ Therefore , go and collect your fifty men and hold yourself in readiness. ” “ For what ? ” “ For everything. ” “ Is there any signal for the general rally ? ” “ A knot of straw in the hat. ” “ Very good .
“ To the Champs-Élysées , ” said the general ; “ the Count of Monte Cristo ’ s .
The two lackeys conducted Milady to the bank of the river .
Poverty overtook you .
Planchet went down into the yard , and wished to saddle the horses ; but the horses were all used up .
Stay , since we have finished dinner , I will show it to you , and then we will take coffee in the garden .
I told my wife several times that it was surprising that linen drapers should live in such houses as those , in houses that had no signs ; but she always laughed at me .
“ He finds the cooking detestable , ” replied Porthos .
Monte Cristo noticed the general astonishment , and began laughing and joking about it .
My father meant me for the navy and I have some vague notions about navigation. ” “ You see ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Bonacieux .
During this time , exempt from the anxiety of its only and true chief , the royal army led a joyous life , neither provisions nor money being wanting in the camp .
I give you a hundred , I give you a thousand times to guess , monsieur , the visit I received in your absence. ” “ When ? ” “ About half an hour ago , while you were at Monsieur de Tréville ’ s. ” “ Who has been here ?
“ Parliament indeed ! ” cried Athos .
“ Well , Decapitator , Guardian of the State , Royalist , Brutus , what is the matter ? ” said one .
Speak. ” “ Madame , ” said the cardinal , affecting an effusive frankness of speech , “ I shall convince your majesty , I trust , of my devotion to you and my desire to terminate an affair which you have so much at heart .
Still , from an artificial civilization have originated wants , vices , and false tastes , which occasionally become so powerful as to stifle within us all good feelings , and ultimately to lead us into guilt and wickedness .
He perceived Château-Renaud and Debray , who had just gained the good graces of a sergeant-at-arms , and who had persuaded the latter to let them stand before , instead of behind him , as they ought to have done .
Penelon put his hand over his eyes , and then stared at the man who thus criticized the manœuvres of his captain .
Sometimes Albert would affect to make a joke of his want of success ; but internally he was deeply wounded , and his self-love immensely piqued , to think that Albert de Morcerf , the most admired and most sought after of any young person of his day , should thus be passed over , and merely have his labor for his pains .
“ Yes , yes , ” continued Lord de Winter , “ I understand .
there is your money , the same sum as that you have received already .
Nothing is impossible. ” “ On paper. ” “ In execution .
“ Answer , sir , ” exclaimed he ; “ you have been asked politely , and every question is worth an answer. ” “ I suppose I am free to say or not to say who I am to two strangers who take a fancy to ask me. ” It was with difficulty that De Guiche restrained the intense desire he had of breaking the monk ’ s bones .
“ Athos ! ” repeated M. de Tréville himself .
Besides , ” added he , lowering his voice and looking with a suppliant air at the cardinal , “ let us give them apparent security ; that is policy. ” This policy of Louis XIII .
Give him a lesson , Debray. ” “ Stay , ” said Beauchamp , “ surely I am not deceived. ” “ What is it ? ” “ It is she ! ” “ Whom do you mean ? ” “ They said she had left. ” “ Mademoiselle Eugénie ? ” said Château-Renaud ; “ has she returned ? ” “ No , but her mother. ” “ Madame Danglars ?
“ Well , ” said Franz with a sigh , “ do as you please my dear viscount , for your arguments are beyond my powers of refutation .
“ Those are really aces and twos which you see , but my shots have turned them into threes , fives , sevens , eights , nines , and tens. ” Albert approached .
Athos took a pistol from his belt , looked to see if it was properly primed , cocked it , and placed the muzzle close to Grimaud ’ s ear .
But what raised public astonishment to a climax , and set all conjecture at defiance , was the knowledge that the same stranger who had in the morning visited the Allées de Meilhan had been seen in the evening walking in the little village of the Catalans , and afterwards observed to enter a poor fisherman ’ s hut , and to pass more than an hour in inquiring after persons who had either been dead or gone away for more than fifteen or sixteen years .
“ My dear landlady , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I beg to introduce to you your brother , who is arrived from Flanders and whom I am going to take into my service. ” “ My brother ? ” “ Wish your sister good-morning , Master Peter. ” “ Wilkom , suster , ” said Planchet .
This proof of his guilt may be procured by his immediate arrest , as the letter will be found either about his person , at his father ’ s residence , or in his cabin on board the _Pharaon_. ’ ” The abbé shrugged his shoulders .
Aramis continued , “ And yet , while I do belong to the earth , I wish to speak of you—of our friends. ” “ And on my part , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I wished to speak of you , but I find you so completely detached from everything !
At the Barriere des Sergents the procession was obliged to stop .
The time for wine came .
“ Come , gentlemen , your swords , ” said the duke .
The queen made a sign for every one , except Mazarin , to quit the room ; and Gondy bowed , as if to leave with the rest .
But he also was spurred on by a ferocious desire of vengeance .
In a moment he had passed through them , and could see the house distinctly .
This was not , however , a rope ladder , but a ball of silk cord , with a narrow board which was to pass between the legs , the ball to unwind itself by the weight of the person who sat astride upon the board .
The foremost of them stammered and attempted to fall back .
He is a priest , learned in cases of conscience , and we will tell him ours. ” It was then agreed that they were to go first to Monsieur de Bouillon , as his house came first ; but first of all Athos begged that he might go to the Hotel du Grand Charlemagne , to see Raoul .
Having seen Jacopo fairly out of the harbor , Dantès proceeded to make his final adieus on board _La Jeune Amélie_ , distributing so liberal a gratuity among her crew as to secure for him the good wishes of all , and expressions of cordial interest in all that concerned him .
“ Maximilian , ” said she , “ Maximilian , my friend , my brother on earth , my true husband in heaven , I entreat you , do as I do , live in suffering ; perhaps we may one day be united. ” “ Adieu , Valentine , ” repeated Morrel .
How soft and perfumed was the air ; how lovely the blue heavens and star-enameled sky !
Monsieur Bertuccio Chapter 43 .
But what he saw made good what he lacked in perfect comprehension of the language .
And as we are prevented from going down there , we are forced to refuse food and drink to the travelers who come to the house ; so that our hostelry is daily going to ruin .
She appeared to be in ecstasy , and did not pay the least attention to what was going on around her .
‘ You mistake , ’ he said , ‘ Providence does exist , only you have never seen him , because the child of God is as invisible as the parent .
You are running your heads into a very silly affair ; you will be riddled .
As to the servant , he had , as we have said , been with his master for five-and-twenty years , therefore he knew all his habits , and it was seldom that Noirtier found it necessary to ask for anything , so prompt was he in administering to all the necessities of the invalid .
You live in a manner far superior to many clerks who work ten times harder than you do for their money .
In fact , the minister , who , in the plenitude of his power , had been unable to unearth Napoleon ’ s secret , might in despair at his own downfall interrogate Dantès and so lay bare the motives of Villefort ’ s plot .
Neither was he one of those who think that the necessary silence of the night brings counsel with it .
“ I mean that they have killed an enemy , which is a very different thing , ” returned the captain .
“ Farewell till we meet again , ” said Aramis , as they took leave of Planchet ; “ if anything happens to us we shall blame you for it. ” “ Sir , ” said Planchet , “ I am in all things at your service. ” “ That fellow is no fool , ” said Aramis , as he got on his horse .
“ Come , ” said D ’ Artagnan to Raoul , seeing that Athos wished to be alone , “ come , let us take a turn in the fencing gallery ; that will amuse you. ” And they both went into a low room where there were foils , gloves , masks , breastplates , and all the accessories for a fencing match .
“ Do not detain those gentlemen here , count , ” she said ; “ they would prefer , I should think , to breathe in the garden rather than suffocate here , since they are not playing. ” “ Ah , ” said a gallant old general , who , in 1809 , had sung _Partant pour la Syrie_ , — “ we will not go alone to the garden. ” “ Then , ” said Mercédès , “ I will lead the way. ” Turning towards Monte Cristo , she added , “ count , will you oblige me with your arm ? ” The count almost staggered at these simple words ; then he fixed his eyes on Mercédès .
On the day when foreign succor follows in the train of a king to replace him on his throne , it is an avowal that he no longer possesses the help and love of his own subjects. ” “ To the point , sir , ” said the queen , “ to the point , and answer me , yes or no ; if the king persists in remaining in England will you send him succor ?
the will was never wanting. ” “ To get away you would not mind , you added , knocking down a door or a wall. ” “ ’ Tis true—I said so , and I say it again. ” “ And I answered you , Porthos , that it was not a good plan ; that we couldn ’ t go a hundred steps without being recaptured , because we were without clothes to disguise ourselves and arms to defend ourselves. ” “ That is true ; we should need clothes and arms. ” “ Well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , rising , “ we have them , friend Porthos , and even something better. ” “ Bah ! ” said Porthos , looking around .
“ She will save us , ” said Conti .
The commissary was seated in the chair , and was writing at the table .
Show him a white handkerchief knotted at the four corners and tell the crew to disembark and carry the powder back to the arsenal , unless , indeed—— ” “ Unless ? ” said Mordaunt , whose face was lighted by a savage joy as Cromwell spoke : “ This skiff might be of use to you for personal projects. ” “ Oh , my lord , my lord ! ” “ That title , ” said Cromwell , laughing , “ is all very well here , but take care a word like that does not escape your lips in public. ” “ But your honor will soon be called so generally. ” “ I hope so , at least , ” said Cromwell , rising and putting on his cloak .
Different in your fate from us , you will have a king without a minister , whom you may serve , love , respect .
It is pleasant to have such well-dressed brethren ; and those gendarmes behaved shamefully .
Bonacieux , and that he should find her next day at the Louvre ; sometimes he feared she had had an intrigue with another , who , in a jealous fit , had surprised her and carried her off .
This scrutiny was so much the more easy , the coachman being sound asleep .
My honor will not survive it !
Do you know him ?
Milady recoiled , uttering a cry .
Then all was dark again .
I have been myself to the best engraver of the Palais Royal , who did the plate in my presence .
“ It is that , then , ” replied the young man , anxious to find out the truth , “ it is that , then , I remember as we remember a dream .
“ He has escaped by this means , ” exclaimed he .
The Dappled Grays The baron , followed by the count , traversed a long series of apartments , in which the prevailing characteristics were heavy magnificence and the gaudiness of ostentatious wealth , until he reached the boudoir of Madame Danglars—a small octagonal-shaped room , hung with pink satin , covered with white Indian muslin .
In matters of speculation , however , though “ man proposes , ” yet “ money disposes. ” From some such difficulty the newly named street died almost in birth , and the purchaser of the kitchen-garden , having paid a high price for it , and being quite unable to find anyone willing to take his bargain off his hands without a considerable loss , yet still clinging to the belief that at some future day he should obtain a sum for it that would repay him , not only for his past outlay , but also the interest upon the capital locked up in his new acquisition , contented himself with letting the ground temporarily to some market-gardeners , at a yearly rental of 500 francs .
20219m “ Let us understand each other , ” said Albert ; “ it is agreed—is it not ? —that you are to be at No .
Who ? ” “ Him ! ” “ Him ! —M .
“ But , my lieutenant , ” said a soldier , less stoical than his chief , and who had approached Milady , “ this woman is not asleep. ” “ What , not asleep ! ” said Felton ; “ what is she doing , then ? ” “ She has fainted .
At the noise made by D ’ Artagnan in entering , Aramis lifted up his head , and beheld his friend ; but to the great astonishment of the young man , the sight of him did not produce much effect upon the Musketeer , so completely was his mind detached from the things of this world .
I ’ m your man. ” “ I begin to think so , particularly if you have not forgotten a certain signal. ” “ Here it is , sir , ” and the sailor took from his coat a handkerchief , tied at each corner .
It was evident that if they one day learned positively that they must not count on Buckingham , their courage would fail with their hope .
“ Is that she , mamma ? ” asked Eugénie ; “ almost opposite to us , with that profusion of beautiful light hair ? ” “ Yes , ” said Madame Danglars , “ that is she .
He knew the king of old , and he knew that all these complaints were but a preface—a sort of excitation to encourage himself—and that he had now come to his point at last .
“ Well , ” said Milady , “ I have not seen our Gascon this evening. ” “ What , Milady !
The duke came straight up to him , and said : “ Monsieur de Tréville , his Majesty has just sent for me in order to inquire respecting the circumstances which took place yesterday at my hôtel .
He had made up his mind to write to her the next day .
If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States , we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying , distributing , performing , displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed .
Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4 , “ Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. ” • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing ( or by e-mail ) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License .
If he proves himself worthy of it , I will do what I can to advance his interests .
30185m “ Madame , ” replied Villefort “ I can truly say that I have always entertained a high respect for my father , because , to the natural feeling of relationship was added the consciousness of his moral superiority .
He made that quarter of a league in four or five minutes .
He approached her and said in a low voice : “ Has your majesty still confidence in me ? ” This voice startled her .
In all probability , this time his master would not retract .
“ Pray , Signor Pastrini , ” asked Franz , “ is not some execution appointed to take place today ? ” “ Yes , your excellency ; but if your reason for inquiry is that you may procure a window to view it from , you are much too late. ” “ Oh , no , ” answered Franz , “ I had no such intention ; and even if I had felt a wish to witness the spectacle , I might have done so from Monte Pincio ; could I not ? ” “ Ah ! ” exclaimed mine host , “ I did not think it likely your excellency would have chosen to mingle with such a rabble as are always collected on that hill , which , indeed , they consider as exclusively belonging to themselves. ” “ Very possibly I may not go , ” answered Franz ; “ but in case I feel disposed , give me some particulars of today ’ s executions. ” “ What particulars would your excellency like to hear ? ” “ Why , the number of persons condemned to suffer , their names , and description of the death they are to die. ” “ That happens just lucky , your excellency !
“ Suppose we warn the masters. ” “ Let ’ s wait for Grimaud. ” “ But perhaps they have killed him. ” “ Grimaud would have cried out. ” “ You know he is almost dumb. ” “ We should have heard the blow , then. ” “ But if he doesn ’ t return ? ” “ Here he is. ” At that very moment Grimaud drew back the cloak which hid the aperture and came in with his face livid , his eyes staring wide open with terror , so that the pupils were contracted almost to nothing , with a large circle of white around them .
The count ’ s anxiety was manifested by a bright color which seldom appeared on the face of that imperturbable man .
He was dressed in a doublet and hose of a violet color , with aiguillettes of the same color , without any other ornaments than the customary slashes , through which the shirt appeared .
“ Yes , and pretty tight too , I can tell you , ” was the answer .
The crime was depicted in the most vivid colors ; the former life of the prisoner , his transformation , a review of his life from the earliest period , were set forth with all the talent that a knowledge of human life could furnish to a mind like that of the procureur .
The Indictment Chapter 111 .
You had better tell me at once that you intend starving me to death. ” “ Oh , dear , no , your excellency , unless you intend to commit suicide .
Morrel did not turn round—he expected these words of Cocles , “ The agent of Thomson & French. ” He placed the muzzle of the pistol between his teeth .
“ What ? ” asked Athos .
The baroness returned to the hotel with as much caution as Eugénie used in leaving it ; she ran lightly upstairs , and with an aching heart entered her apartment , contiguous , as we know , to that of Eugénie .
“ Why , that is that you would have acted much more wisely if you had not required me to make myself known. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because I am believed to be dead , and have reasons for wishing nobody to know I am living ; so that I shall be obliged to kill you to prevent my secret from roaming over the fields. ” The Englishman looked at Athos , believing that he jested , but Athos did not jest the least in the world .
Night came , the two women had watched , hoping that when he left his room Morrel would come to them , but they heard him pass before their door , and trying to conceal the noise of his footsteps .
Besides , ” he said , “ a treasure is not a thing we need hurry about. ” “ On the contrary , it is a matter of the utmost importance , Edmond ! ” replied the old man .
Whose is the sand upon which we were reclining ?
There was a shock which was perceived even in the royal carriage .
Why , he left Marseilles , and was taken , on the recommendation of M. Morrel , who did not know his crime , as cashier into a Spanish bank .
A bed of dried grass covered with goat-skins was placed in one corner .
Habitually he spoke little and slowly , bowed frequently , laughed without noise , showing his teeth , which were fine and of which , as the rest of his person , he appeared to take great care .
As to the Duc de Bouillon , he had such a fit of gout as obliged him to return to Paris in a litter ; but his place was well filled by the Duc d ’ Elbeuf and his four sons , ranged around him like a staff .
“ I passed the night on a chair , starting at the least noise , for toward midnight the lamp went out , and I was again in darkness .
The chamber was evidently furnished for the reception of a woman ; and the most finished coquette could not have formed a wish , but on casting her eyes about the apartment , she would have found that wish accomplished .
I will say , then , _Monsieur_ , quite short. ” “ You may even say , _My Lord_ , ” replied Athos , who stickled for propriety .
“ ‘ Ah , ah ! ’ cried he , seizing my arm , and wresting from me the weapon that had so badly served me , ‘ you want to take my life , do you , my pretty Puritan ?
This man , in whom Milady till that time had only seen a very simple gentleman , had become an admirable jailer .
Mother Nanette ! ” He could say no more ; but though he hadn ’ t strength to speak he had enough for action .
Well , what is the matter ? ” “ The matter is that you have proposed to me what is impossible , ” said Rochefort , shaking his head with an air of disappointment .
The cardinal made a sign to his attendant , who drew near .
This was a matter of dispute between the Holy Father and his son .
“ How !
Raoul had been there about ten minutes , during five of which he was lost in reverie , when there appeared within the circle comprised in his rolling gaze a man with a rubicund face , who , with a napkin around his body , another under his arm , and a white cap upon his head , approached him , holding paper , pen and ink in hand .
No one had taken up the remark about the general , and no one had recognized in the officer who betrayed the castle of Yanina the noble count in the House of Peers .
I also—I love you .
Aramis , who had the third canto of his poem to finish , behaved like a man in haste .
Bonacieux to stoop as he did toward the opening .
“ And your excellency has one , which was let to Prince Lobanieff ; but I was obliged to pay a hundred—— ” “ That will do—that will do , Monsieur Bertuccio ; spare these gentlemen all such domestic arrangements .
But Monsieur de Tréville is a skilled physiognomist , who knows men at first sight ; and he placed you in the company of his brother-in-law , Monsieur Dessessart , leaving you to hope that one day or other you should enter the Musketeers. ” “ Monseigneur is correctly informed , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Monte Cristo took up his glass again as if nothing had happened ; his face was like marble , and his heart was like bronze .
As we no longer wear the sword of the gentleman we may as well have the head of the Puritan .
“ Violence , ” he said to himself , “ would spoil all ; D ’ Artagnan , my friend , prove to this young serpent that thou art not only stronger , but more subtle than he is. ” “ Ah ! ” he said , making a low bow , “ why did you not begin by saying that , Monsieur Mordaunt ?
We will not expose your eminence to the chances of war. ” “ Come , ” answered Mazarin , “ I see it will be necessary for me to capitulate. ” “ Before a siege ? ” “ Yes ; the conditions will be better than afterward. ” “ Ah , my lord !
The usual guide from the hotel having followed them , they had paid two conductors , nor is it possible , at Rome , to avoid this abundant supply of guides ; besides the ordinary _cicerone_ , who seizes upon you directly you set foot in your hotel , and never quits you while you remain in the city , there is also a special _cicerone_ belonging to each monument—nay , almost to each part of a monument .
He sent us home in his own carriage .
“ This is the abbé of whom I spoke , ” said the doctor to d ’ Avrigny .
During the darkness , as before , my supper was brought .
“ ‘ The Abbé Busoni , ’ said La Carconte .
She felt that a powerful and implacable hand seized her by the hair , and dragged her away as irrevocably as fatality drags humanity .
You have spared me , yet of all those who have fallen under your vengeance I was the most guilty .
It was , indeed , strange in this unknown spot to find the young man whose misfortunes had made so much noise in Paris .
Well , does not this tell you that in grief , as in life , there is always something to look forward to beyond ?
Did you not once refuse to undertake a journey to Brussels for the queen ? ” “ Ah !
Dantès had tasted nothing , but he thought not of hunger at such a moment ; he hastily swallowed a few drops of rum , and again entered the cavern .
“ We must play the farce to the end .
“ I , wretch ?
The jailer went away shaking his head .
Arrived at the hotel it was not long before Athos entered .
These two shots had mortally wounded my father , and it was he who had given utterance to these frightful cries .
But today I find you are drawing on mine , and that your apprenticeship may cost me 700,000 francs per month .
Arrived at the staircase , it was still worse .
“ What is my daughter doing ? ” asked Madame Danglars .
Oh , the scoundrels !
HIS MAJESTY KING LOUIS XIII .
“ Dead , dead ! ” repeated he within himself ; and he felt as if he were also dying .
“ I am quite ready , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but in the first place I should like to be certain of one thing. ” “ And what is that ? ” asked Milady .
She then thought that Lord de Winter would come , and by his presence give fresh strength to her jailer .
But at the same moment , his two auditors , accompanied by the host , fell upon D ’ Artagnan with sticks , shovels and tongs .
“ Go on , Signor Pastrini , ” continued Franz , smiling at his friend ’ s susceptibility .
Exteriorly , nothing in the room showed that it was the habitation of an abbé .
De Winter made a gesture of surprise and the queen turned to him with a start of joy .
“ There are only a dozen men at the most. ” “ That would be nothing for us four ; it is too much for us two .
As he spoke , and in the very direction he indicated , a groan , expressive of bitter grief , was heard , and a woman was seen waving her hand to a passenger on board the vessel about to sail .
Now leave me or I will summon my servants to throw you out at the door. ” Wild , almost unconscious , and with eyes inflamed , Albert stepped back , and Morrel closed the door .
“ Stop , ” said he ; “ I will go with you. ” “ Excuse me , sir , ” said Franz , “ since M. Noirtier sent for me , I am ready to attend to his wish ; besides , I shall be happy to pay my respects to him , not having yet had the honor of doing so. ” “ Pray , sir , ” said Villefort with marked uneasiness , “ do not disturb yourself. ” 40032m “ Forgive me , sir , ” said Franz in a resolute tone .
oh ! ” “ And , more especially , a notorious coward. ” “ Oh , oh !
he , the support , the liberator , the father of the people !
The discovery of a completely unknown manuscript at a period in which historical science is carried to such a high degree appeared almost miraculous .
Believe me , madame , I had entirely forgotten it. ” “ But it is not so easy to forget , monsieur , that the very next day after your princely gift you saved the life of my dear friend , Madame de Villefort , which was endangered by the very animals your generosity restored to me. ” 30101m “ This time , at least , I do not deserve your thanks .
“ It is humiliating , ” said he , “ thus to receive money given grudgingly , —an uncertain supply which may soon fail .
This man was dressed in a greatcoat , or rather a surtout , a little worse for the journey , but which exhibited the ribbon of the Legion of Honor still fresh and brilliant , a decoration which also ornamented the under coat .
To be decapitated ?
‘ What is the matter , dear grandfather ? ’ said I , ‘ are you pleased ? ’ He gave me a sign in the affirmative .
“ Oh !
Danglars observed a man in a cloak galloping at the right hand of the carriage .
“ Well , but can ’ t you speak ? ” “ Come , monsieur. ” Porthos rose , saluted his friends , and followed Mousqueton .
But your excellency wished to know two things ; what was the second ? ” “ The second was the crime of which you were accused when you asked for a confessor , and the Abbé Busoni came to visit you at your request in the prison at Nîmes. ” “ The story will be very long , excellency. ” “ What matter ?
Blancmesnil and Broussel seemed in the highest favor .
“ It is to throw ourselves into the wolf ’ s jaws , ” said Aramis .
At other times in spite of maternal endearments or threats , I had with a child ’ s caprice been accustomed to indulge my feelings of sorrow or anger by crying as much as I felt inclined ; but on this occasion there was an intonation of such extreme terror in my mother ’ s voice when she enjoined me to silence , that I ceased crying as soon as her command was given .
“ Oh , God be praised , ” he said ; “ it is a real bed ! ” This was the second time within the hour that he had invoked the name of God .
“ Good ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , rising and brushing his knees ; “ now I have thee—thou art a Frondeur and the lover of Madame de Longueville. ” Chapter X. Monsieur Porthos du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds .
He could not distinguish her countenance , but a sinister smile passed over the lips of Athos .
She called the maid and questioned her .
Towards the evening of the third day .
The count then motioned the valet de chambre to retire , and to Ali to follow to his study , where they conversed long and earnestly together .
Left alone , she arose .
But to return to our subject. ” “ Well , then , you wish to know if I am of Mazarin ’ s party ?
“ My dear Aramis , you have the pen of a secretary of state .
But it has not been so with me , —I see , and always have seen , during the last sixteen years .
In his escape alone , apart from his plans for the future , which , it must be admitted , were for the present sufficiently vague and uncertain , there was a beginning of vengeance which filled his heart .
Beware of giving anyone the clue to your griefs ; the curious suck our tears as flies suck the blood of a wounded hart. ” “ Alas , my dear Aramis , ” said D ’ Artagnan , in his turn heaving a profound sigh , “ that is my story you are relating ! ” “ How ? ” “ Yes ; a woman whom I love , whom I adore , has just been torn from me by force .
I offered to pay them for cancelling the lease ; they demanded 6,000 francs .
“ Of that which I am ready to feel toward you. ” “ And what is that proof ? ” “ Are you willing that I should this evening pass with you the time I generally spend with your mistress ? ” “ Oh , yes , ” said Kitty , clapping her hands , “ very willing. ” “ Well , then , come here , my dear , ” said D ’ Artagnan , establishing himself in an easy chair ; “ come , and let me tell you that you are the prettiest _soubrette_ I ever saw ! ” And he did tell her so much , and so well , that the poor girl , who asked nothing better than to believe him , did believe him .
“ Are you , sir , the chief of the people who brought me here ? ” “ Yes , your excellency .
D ’ Artagnan is too good a comrade to leave his brothers in embarrassment while he wears the ransom of a king on his finger. ” Chapter XXIX .
Well , you stand well with M. Morrel I hear , —you insinuating dog , you ! ” “ M .
As he departed , Danglars approached , and said , — “ Well , it appears that he has given you satisfactory reasons for his landing at Porto-Ferrajo ? ” “ Yes , most satisfactory , my dear Danglars. ” “ Well , so much the better , ” said the supercargo ; “ for it is not pleasant to think that a comrade has not done his duty. ” “ Dantès has done his , ” replied the owner , “ and that is not saying much .
The young couple gazed with astonishment at the sight of their visitor ’ s emotion , and wondered to see the large tears silently chasing each other down his otherwise stern and immovable features ; but they felt the sacredness of his grief , and kindly refrained from questioning him as to its cause , while , with instinctive delicacy , they left him to indulge his sorrow alone .
Make inquiry. ” “ Of whom ? —how ? —of what ? ” “ May not Barrois , the old servant , have made a mistake , and have given Madame de Saint-Méran a dose prepared for his master ? ” “ For my father ? ” “ Yes. ” “ But how could a dose prepared for M. Noirtier poison Madame de Saint-Méran ? ” “ Nothing is more simple .
“ Adieu , then , and be of good courage , ” said Athos .
“ A tigress , a panther !
Caligula or Nero , those treasure-seekers , those desirers of the impossible , would have accorded to the poor wretch , in exchange for his wealth , the liberty he so earnestly prayed for .
The prisoner followed his guide , who led him into a room almost under ground , whose bare and reeking walls seemed as though impregnated with tears ; a lamp placed on a stool illumined the apartment faintly , and showed Dantès the features of his conductor , an under-jailer , ill-clothed , and of sullen appearance .
“ What line would you advise me to study ? ” “ The one that is most in use just at this time. ” “ The Spanish one , you mean , I suppose ? ” “ Yes ; should you like a letter to the minister that they might explain to you—— ” “ No , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ since , as I told you before , I do not wish to comprehend it .
Maximilian , in his devotedness , gazed silently at her .
Comminges had arrested one of the ringleaders and had ordered him to be hanged near the cross of Du Trahoir ; but in attempting to execute this command the soldiery were attacked in the market-place with stones and halberds ; the delinquent had escaped to the Rue des Lombards and rushed into a house .
Milady arose .
Not one of these glances , nor one sigh , was lost on her ; they might have been said to fall on the shield of Minerva , which some philosophers assert protected sometimes the breast of Sappho .
“ I think you hailed me , Mademoiselle Julie ? ” said he .
He alone would have any influence with them ; I do not even know them under their true names. ” “ You suspect me , Monsieur de Rochefort ; I want him and you and all to aid me. ” “ Begin with me , my lord ; for after five or six years of imprisonment it is natural to feel some curiosity as to one ’ s destination. ” “ You , my dear Monsieur de Rochefort , shall have the post of confidence ; you shall go to Vincennes , where Monsieur de Beaufort is confined ; you will guard him well for me .
The Leghorn barber said nothing and went to work .
“ Ah , ah ! ” said Lord de Winter , “ after having played comedy , after having played tragedy , we are now playing melancholy ? ” The prisoner made no reply .
Haydée Chapter 78 .
He was disagreeably surprised to see his own valet de chambre , whom he had not brought , that he might not inconvenience Monte Cristo .
One day he stopped all at once , and exclaimed : “ Ah , if there were no sentinel ! ” “ There shall not be one a minute longer than you please , ” said Dantès , who had followed the working of his thoughts as accurately as though his brain were enclosed in crystal so clear as to display its minutest operations .
With every three shots at least two men fell ; but the march of those who remained was not slackened .
Now , it never occurred to me to wish for a nearer inspection of these large insects , with their long black claws , for I always feared to find under their stone wings some little human genius fagged to death with cabals , factions , and government intrigues .
The sergeant had not the courage to reply ; he showed him the open door , the empty room .
Tomorrow morning I start for Paris ; four days to go , and the same to return , with one day to discharge the commission entrusted to me , is all the time I shall be absent .
The boat was moored to the shore , and they advanced a few paces to find a comfortable bivouac ; but , doubtless , the spot they chose did not suit the smuggler who filled the post of sentinel , for he cried out : “ Not that way , if you please. ” Gaetano faltered an excuse , and advanced to the opposite side , while two sailors kindled torches at the fire to light them on their way .
But what shall we drink to , so as to avoid wounding any susceptibility ?
Dear Maximilian , believe me when I assure you that if I do not attempt to resist my father ’ s commands it is more on your account than my own. ” “ But why , Valentine , do you persist in anticipating the worst , —why picture so gloomy a future ? ” “ Because I judge it from the past. ” “ Still , consider that although I may not be , strictly speaking , what is termed an illustrious match for you , I am , for many reasons , not altogether so much beneath your alliance .
You say you were on the point of being made captain of the _Pharaon_ ? ” “ Yes. ” “ And about to become the husband of a young and lovely girl ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Now , could anyone have had any interest in preventing the accomplishment of these two things ?
About this time the nurse ’ s cough was heard on the stairs and the woman entered the room with a cup in her hand .
It was very natural , he being the only person in the whole assemblage , except the king , the queen , and the Duke of Orleans , who slept gratuitously .
D ’ Artagnan was therefore served with miraculous celerity .
Is the world filled with tigers and crocodiles ? ” “ Yes ; and remember that two-legged tigers and crocodiles are more dangerous than the others. ” “ Never mind ; let us go on. ” “ With all my heart !
On Saturday , at six o ’ clock .
“ D ’ Artagnan ! ” ejaculated Athos .
I shall have something of the greatest importance to communicate to you. ” Dantès took the hand of the abbé in his , and affectionately pressed it .
Thus the soldiers of other companies than those which belonged to the Red Duke , as Aramis had called him , often took part with the king ’ s Musketeers in these quarrels .
Monte Cristo quickly appreciated all that Albert had collected here—old cabinets , Japanese porcelain , Oriental stuffs , Venetian glass , arms from all parts of the world—everything was familiar to him ; and at the first glance he recognized their date , their country , and their origin .
what a flavor ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ ah !
The murderer , supposing him dead , let fall his head and disappeared .
At length Felton , who had not yet looked at Milady , turned toward her .
Come , come , calm yourself , my sweet girl !
Gondy had not walked a hundred steps ere he perceived the strange change which had been made in the streets of Paris .
“ What do you think of the count ? ” inquired Debray ; “ he is not much amiss , according to my ideas of good looks. ” “ The count , ” repeated Eugénie , as though it had not occurred to her to observe him sooner ; “ the count ? —oh , he is so dreadfully pale. ” “ I quite agree with you , ” said Morcerf ; “ and the secret of that very pallor is what we want to find out .
“ I will tell it , ” cried Milady , with a feigned exultation , “ on the day when I shall have suffered sufficiently for my faith. ” The look of Felton revealed to Milady the full extent of the space she had opened for herself by this single word .
“ And yet that villain , Benedetto , will escape ! ” “ No one , I tell you , will escape ; Benedetto will be punished. ” “ Then , you , too , will be punished , for you did not do your duty as a priest—you should have prevented Benedetto from killing me. ” “ I ? ” said the count , with a smile which petrified the dying man , “ when you had just broken your knife against the coat of mail which protected my breast !
He resolved , then , to carry on the war alone , and to look for no success foreign to himself , but as we look for a fortunate chance .
Answer !
Madame Danglars looked at her husband with an expression which , at any other time , would have indicated a storm , but for the second time she controlled herself .
Great , therefore , was the astonishment when at the end of the month , he cancelled all his obligations with his usual punctuality .
A servant , wearing a livery of considerable style and richness , appeared at the threshold , and , placing two cards in the landlord ’ s hands , who forthwith presented them to the two young men , he said : “ Please to deliver these , from the Count of Monte Cristo to Vicomte Albert de Morcerf and M. Franz d ’ Épinay .
You were in the south of France , I think ? ” “ Yes , ” replied Andrea , with an embarrassed air , “ I was in the south of France. ” “ A carriage was to await you at Nice ? ” “ Precisely so ; and it conveyed me from Nice to Genoa , from Genoa to Turin , from Turin to Chambéry , from Chambéry to Pont-de-Beauvoisin , and from Pont-de-Beauvoisin to Paris. ” 30133m “ Indeed ?
Ten minutes later the escort stopped at Ermenonville , but the four friends went on with well sustained ardor , guarding Mazarin carefully .
Now , in spite of the nobility of his countenance , the command of which , like a finished actor , he had carefully studied before the glass , it was by no means easy for him to assume an air of judicial severity .
“ My good fellow , you ’ ll find the word in Saint-Simon. ” “ But the thing itself is at M. de Villefort ’ s ; but let ’ s get back to the subject. ” “ Talking of that , ” said Debray , “ Madame was making inquiries about that house , which for the last three months has been hung with black. ” “ Who is Madame ? ” asked Château-Renaud .
Before closing the door he turned around once more , and said , “ Not a movement—not a word ; let them think you asleep , or perhaps you may be killed before I have the power of helping you. ” And with this fearful injunction the count disappeared through the door , which noiselessly closed after him .
The two friends turned down the first street they came to .
Come , if so you will , count , and continue this conversation at my house , any day you may be willing to see an adversary capable of understanding and anxious to refute you , and I will show you my father , M. Noirtier de Villefort , one of the most fiery Jacobins of the French Revolution ; that is to say , he had the most remarkable audacity , seconded by a most powerful organization—a man who has not , perhaps , like yourself seen all the kingdoms of the earth , but who has helped to overturn one of the greatest ; in fact , a man who believed himself , like you , one of the envoys , not of God , but of a supreme being ; not of Providence , but of fate .
Come hither , and let us talk. ” The host approached with hesitation .
“ Pardon me , ” said Albert , “ I was not aware that he was a prince .
Bazin was their only attendant , for Grimaud had stayed behind to take care of Mousqueton .
Her carriage was that of a queen or a goddess ; her eyes , which cast the brilliancy of emeralds , were perfectly beautiful , and yet were at the same time full of sweetness and majesty .
Then Athos took from his pocket a small paper , on which two lines were written , accompanied by a signature and a seal , and presented them to him who had made too prematurely these signs of repugnance .
“ Ah , _pardieu ! _ ” continued he , “ if it were as easy for me to get rid of my enemy as it is easy to get rid of yours , and if it were against such people you require impunity— ” “ Monseigneur , ” replied Milady , “ a fair exchange .
“ Sir , we don ’ t keep any , ” was the reply of the people who opened the doors ; “ but please ask at the hay dealer ’ s. ” “ Where is the hay dealer ’ s ? ” “ At the last large door in the street. ” “ Are there any other people in Saint Germain who sell straw ? ” “ Yes ; there ’ s the landlord of the Lamb , and Gros-Louis the farmer ; they both live in the Rue des Ursulines. ” “ Very well. ” D ’ Artagnan went instantly to the hay dealer and bargained with him for a hundred and fifty trusses of straw , which he obtained , at the rate of three pistoles each .
We have promised and we will keep our promise .
“ Name a few of those whom you know , and you will see if they are my friends. ” “ Well ! ” said Milady , embarrassed , “ I know Monsieur de Louvigny , Monsieur de Courtivron , Monsieur de Ferussac. ” The novice let her speak , then seeing that she paused , she said , “ Don ’ t you know a gentleman named Athos ? ” Milady became as pale as the sheets in which she was lying , and mistress as she was of herself , could not help uttering a cry , seizing the hand of the novice , and devouring her with looks .
“ Base coward !
Three days passed thus , during which his prayers were frequent , if not heartfelt .
The citizen followed him .
“ Save me , gentlemen , for the love of heaven , save me ! ” cried he .
1.E.3 .
Long life to his Eminence !
Now suppose that next day , one of these eels , or pike , or carp , poisoned at the fourth remove , is served up at your table .
I would die willingly for the king , but supposing I happened to be killed on account of Mazarin , as your nephew came near being to-day , there could be nothing in Paradise , however well placed I might be there , that could console me for it. ” “ Well , well , Monsieur de Villequier , ” Mazarin interposed , “ I shall make it my care the king hears of your loyalty .
D ’ Artagnan , on the contrary , quite full of his plans of conciliation and courtesy , approached the young men with a profound bow , accompanied by a most gracious smile .
On arriving at the door of the room where the queen was receiving he made a sign for them to wait and opening the door : “ Madame , ” he said , “ I hope your majesty will forgive me for disobeying your orders , when you learn that the gentlemen I have come to announce are the Comte de la Fere and the Chevalier d ’ Herblay. ” On hearing those two names the queen uttered a cry of joy , which the two gentlemen heard .
I had but one gerfalcon , and he died day before yesterday. ” “ Indeed , sire , I wholly comprehend your disappointment .
“ Why , it is indeed a true royal jewel , which is worth a thousand pistoles if it is worth a denier .
In that case his last hope would have been destroyed .
“ Baron Danglars. ’ ” “ One , two , three , four , five , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ five millions—why what a Crœsus you are ! ” “ This is how I transact business , ” said Danglars .
Farther on , a still greater terror seized him on passing by the cemetery of St. Jean , where state criminals were buried .
Maximilian Villefort rose , half-ashamed of being surprised in such a paroxysm of grief .
At length an honorable peer , Morcerf ’ s acknowledged enemy , ascended the tribune with that solemnity which announced that the expected moment had arrived .
He pushed on toward him , but before he could reach it the shadow had disappeared into an alley , into which Grimaud deemed it scarcely prudent to pursue it .
By no means .
Now this was a Sunday , and the abbé had come to ask his young companion to share the luxuries with him .
Bonacieux , when her husband had shut the street door and she found herself alone ; “ that imbecile lacked but one thing : to become a cardinalist .
From time to time chills ran through his whole body , and clutched his heart in a grasp of ice .
The procurator ’ s wife saw him pass in his new uniform and on his fine horse .
Perhaps it was some man of rank who had grave reasons for hating the fallen king , and who , learning that the king was about to flee and escape him , threw himself in the way , with a mask on his face and an axe in his hand , not as substitute for the executioner , but as an ambassador of Fate. ” “ Possibly. ” “ And if that were the case would your honor condemn his action ? ” “ It is not for me to judge .
I shall faint again ! ” Monte Cristo approached , and dropped on his purple lips three or four drops of the contents of the phial .
“ You do not know these men , Monsieur Comminges , but I know them , first personally , also by hearsay .
“ Where are you going ? ” cried the young girl , extending her hand through the opening , and seizing Maximilian by his coat , for she understood from her own agitated feelings that her lover ’ s calmness could not be real ; “ where are you going ? ” “ I am going , that I may not bring fresh trouble into your family : and to set an example which every honest and devoted man , situated as I am , may follow. ” “ Before you leave me , tell me what you are going to do , Maximilian. ” The young man smiled sorrowfully .
I have now the boldness to ask you for an interview of half an hour. ” “ I grant it , monsieur , ” replied Madame de Chevreuse with her most gracious smile .
These four Frenchmen have escaped from Newcastle , and no doubt want to carry off the king .
At the moment the boat began her course they lost sight of the yacht , as it disappeared in the gulf of Porto-Vecchio .
Oh , how bitter a fate is mine , to serve either as a victim or an enemy to all who are stronger than myself , while my only friend and supporter is a living corpse !
is it against you or against myself ?
In fact , M. Bonacieux , having left his house at seven o ’ clock in the evening to go to the Louvre , never appeared again in the Rue des Fossoyeurs ; the opinion of those who seemed to be best informed was that he was fed and lodged in some royal castle , at the expense of his generous Eminence .
Might he not have come for the purpose of laying a snare for him ?
He meets Albert de Morcerf in Italy—it is to rescue him from the hands of the banditti ; he introduces himself to Madame Danglars—it is that he may give her a royal present ; your step-mother and her son pass before his door—it is that his Nubian may save them from destruction .
During the five years of this seclusion , which would have improved and matured the intellect of any other man , M. de Beaufort , had he not affected to brave the cardinal , despise princes , and walk alone without adherents or disciples , would either have regained his liberty or made partisans .
“ But listen to me , then , ” resumed Aramis with politeness mingled with a little impatience .
“ And why not ?
The fourth , as we have said , was dead .
A regiment of cuirassiers , nearly equal as to numbers , issued from behind the hill and came full gallop toward it .
“ Good day , dear D ’ Artagnan , ” said Aramis ; “ believe me , I am glad to see you. ” “ So am I delighted to see you , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ although I am not yet sure that it is Aramis I am speaking to. ” “ To himself , my friend , to himself !
Wait a week and I myself will give you some. ” “ A week is too long .
It was worth while , truly , ” added the young man with a melancholy smile , “ to make war against the English for ten years , and to die in his bed at last , like everybody else. ” “ Why , you see , Edmond , ” replied the owner , who appeared more comforted at every moment , “ we are all mortal , and the old must make way for the young .
“ No , ” said she , withdrawing it gently— “ no , my friend , touch me not .
Valentine uttered a cry of horror ; Morrel took her in his arms , as if to defend her from some unknown danger .
“ Zounds !
I shall give him a good dinner , he will confide his son to my care , I will promise to watch over him , I shall let him follow in whatever path his folly may lead him , and then I shall have done my part. ” “ Certainly ; I see you are a model Mentor , ” said Albert “ Good-bye , we shall return on Sunday .
Take courage , sir ; but at the same time rely on our royal gratitude. ” “ Ah , here is M. Dandré ! ” cried de Blacas .
Come on , here , you others , ” he continued , rising in his stirrups , raising his sword , and addressing those musketeers who had not been able to follow his rapid onslaught .
THE SIGN OF THE RED DOVECOT Chapter XLIV .
By the light of one of these torches D ’ Artagnan perceived men in uniform .
However , he toiled on all the night without being discouraged ; but after two or three hours he encountered an obstacle .
“ Yes , ” replied Beauchamp .
“ Now , understand me , ” said the count , “ no direct questions , my dear Morcerf ; if you wish to know anything , tell me , and I will ask her. ” “ Agreed. ” Ali reappeared for the third time , and drew back the tapestried hanging which concealed the door , to signify to his master and Albert that they were at liberty to pass on .
“ Not for the countess , or for Albert , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ a dead father or husband is better than a dishonored one , —blood washes out shame. ” “ Poor countess , ” said Maximilian , “ I pity her very much ; she is so noble a woman ! ” “ Pity Albert also , Maximilian ; for believe me he is the worthy son of the countess .
The same day the will was made , the witnesses were brought , it was approved by the old man , sealed in the presence of all and given in charge to M. Deschamps , the family notary .
can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying copyright royalties .
I regret not having heard them .
Be kind enough , then , to send me 500,000 francs tomorrow .
He had a haughty bearing , a look either steady and impenetrable or insolently piercing and inquisitorial .
And how many men had he with him ? ” “ I do not know , sire , ” answered the minister of police .
But through the door she fancied she saw the luminous eye of the count—that eye which lived in her memory , and the recollection overwhelmed her with so much shame that she asked herself whether any amount of gratitude could ever repay his adventurous and devoted friendship .
“ My dear Athos , ” he said , “ I am going away .
You see there are two wanting. ” “ Eight days , my Lord. ” “ I will give you three thousand pistoles apiece if I can have them by the day after tomorrow. ” “ My Lord , they shall be yours. ” “ You are a jewel of a man , Mr. O ’ Reilly ; but that is not all .
“ Speak , madame ! ” resumed Mme .
Alas !
“ There , ” said Monte Cristo placing his arms around the count , and leaning with him over the front of the box , just as Haydée , whose eyes were occupied in examining the theatre in search of her guardian , perceived his pale features close to Morcerf ’ s face .
How will you have them protect you ?
“ The spade , perhaps. ” An exclamation of satisfaction indicated that the grave-digger had found the object of his search .
Dead Animosities .
De Wardes , one of the cardinal ’ s men , a cousin of Rochefort !
I had about a million in their hands , but , warned in time , I withdrew it a month ago. ” “ Ah , _mon Dieu ! _ ” exclaimed Danglars , “ they have drawn on me for 200,000 francs ! ” “ Well , you can throw out the draft ; their signature is worth five per cent. ” “ Yes , but it is too late , ” said Danglars , “ I have honored their bills. ” “ Then , ” said Monte Cristo , “ here are 200,000 francs gone after—— ” “ Hush , do not mention these things , ” said Danglars ; then , approaching Monte Cristo , he added , “ especially before young M. Cavalcanti ; ” after which he smiled , and turned towards the young man in question .
Her attitude , though perfectly natural for an Eastern woman would , in a European , have been deemed too full of coquettish straining after effect .
Valentine clasped her hands as if in prayer .
Nay , do not press my hand , Edmond ; you are thinking , I am sure , of some kind speech to console me , but do not utter it to me , reserve it for others more worthy of your kindness .
“ You see , sir , he is really dead , ” said the doctor ; “ this burn in the heel is decisive .
He even went so far as to show us the way out ; he led us to the park wall , which we climbed over without accident , and then we fell in with Grimaud. ” “ Well ! ” exclaimed Aramis , “ this will reconcile me to him ; but I wish he were here that I might tell him that I did not believe him capable of so noble an act. ” “ My lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , no longer able to contain himself , “ allow me to introduce to you the Chevalier d ’ Herblay , who wishes—as you may have heard—to offer his congratulations to your eminence. ” And he retired , discovering Mazarin , who was in great confusion , to the astonished gaze of Aramis .
Oh , great city , it is in thy palpitating bosom that I have found that which I sought ; like a patient miner , I have dug deep into thy very entrails to root out evil thence .
Although the key was in the door the coadjutor knocked .
Wooden points that they stick in between your legs till your bones stick out !
“ Here , ” said he , “ is the price of the execution , that it may be plain we act as judges. ” “ That is correct , ” said the executioner ; “ and now in her turn , let this woman see that I am not fulfilling my trade , but my debt. ” And he threw the money into the river .
The love I have for you is very different from the love I had for my father .
The curate then entered , followed by Planchet .
These 3,000 francs are enormous , and I intend building upon this foundation a miraculous certainty for the future. ” “ You say this , my dear boy ; but do you think we ought to accept these 3,000 francs ? ” said Mercédès , coloring .
“ Gentlemen , ” said the queen , laughing , “ pray take up your abode in the chateau ; it is large , and there will be no want of room for you all ; but , as we never thought of coming here , I am informed that there are , in all , only three beds in the whole establishment , one for the king , one for me—— ” “ And one for the cardinal , ” muttered the prince .
“ My faith , ” said Aramis , “ I must confess I feel a great repugnance to fire on these poor devils of civilians. ” “ He is a bad priest , ” said Porthos , “ who has pity for heretics. ” “ In truth , ” said Athos , “ Aramis is right .
“ Excuse my little subterfuge , ” said the countess , in reply to her companion ’ s half-reproachful observation on the subject ; “ but that horrid man had made me feel quite uncomfortable , and I longed to be alone , that I might compose my startled mind. ” Franz essayed to smile .
He gained the place appointed , and as no signal had been given him by which to announce his presence , he waited .
Athos , though now cool and collected , put his hand to his belt , where his loaded pistols yet remained .
Dantès folded his hands , raised his eyes to heaven , and prayed fervently .
I owe you some explanations for my conduct , and as you are a woman that can perfectly understand me , I will give them .
I am parched with thirst .
“ Friends , ” he said , “ we must leave this craft at once or we are dead men. ” “ Bah ! ” said Athos , “ are you still afraid ? ” “ Do you know who is captain of this vessel ? ” “ No. ” “ Captain Groslow. ” The shudder of the three musketeers showed to D ’ Artagnan that his words began to make some impression on them .
“ Let out your prisoner .
come !
“ Hearing the noise of the fight , ” resumed the duke , “ I fancied you had about twenty men with you , so I came back with those around me , tired of always running away , and wishing to draw my sword in my own cause ; but you are only two. ” “ Yes , my lord ; but , as you have said , two that are a match for twenty , ” said Athos .
A tear , which appeared in the old man ’ s eye , expressed his thanks to the doctor .
Ah !
“ Milady , ” faltered D ’ Artagnan , and fainted a second time .
“ How will you prove , ” continued the Jesuit , without allowing him time to speak , “ that we ought to regret the world when we offer ourselves to God ?
“ Eh , rascal ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ do you not recognize his highness the prince ’ s carriage ? ” “ Prince or not , ” said the man , “ open .
A handful of confetti that came from a neighboring carriage , and which , while it covered Morcerf and his two companions with dust , pricked his neck and that portion of his face uncovered by his mask like a hundred pins , incited him to join in the general combat , in which all the masks around him were engaged .
“ He must be the Shah of Persia , travelling _incog_. ” “ Have you noticed the remarkable beauty of the young woman , M. Lucien ? ” inquired Eugénie .
this , ” cried the voice , the tone of which was at once polished and jeering , “ this is nothing but a butchery of horses and not a combat between men .
“ Go , ” said he quickly .
“ Is it possible that Rochefort has become a better man than I am ? ” he said to himself .
The _soubrette_ said , ‘ For your master. ’ I have no other master but you ; so—a pretty little lass , my faith , is that _soubrette ! _ ” D ’ Artagnan opened the letter , and read these words : “ A person who takes more interest in you than she is willing to confess wishes to know on what day it will suit you to walk in the forest ?
All that which a man wounded in his self-love could let fall in the shape of imprecations and reproaches upon the head of a woman Porthos let fall upon the bowed head of the procurator ’ s wife .
He will never believe that my death was suicide ; and yet it is important for the honor of my memory , —and this surely is not vanity , but a justifiable pride , —it is important the world should know that I have consented , by my free will , to stop my arm , already raised to strike , and that with the arm which has been so powerful against others I have struck myself .
“ Come in , my dear John , ” said Lord de Winter , “ come in , and shut the door. ” The young officer entered .
the past is another thing , ” said Athos , sighing ; “ the past and the future. ” “ Are you afraid for your young Raoul ? ” asked Aramis .
The door opened , and the man in the mantle reappeared .
Only as they went out Aramis placed his hand upon the arm of D ’ Artagnan , and looking at him earnestly , “ You have not spoken of this lady ? ” said he .
Listen , it is impossible .
“ Go on ; who were those men ? ” “ One of them was a foreigner , English , I think .
It was that of a number of men steadily approaching .
From time to time the man by the chimney raised his eyes from the writings , and plunged them like poniards into the heart of the poor mercer .
“ You were saying , my dear friend—— ” “ No ; I said nothing. ” “ Yes ; you were saying you wished to leave this place. ” “ Ah , indeed !
“ A king , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ it ’ s a good omen , Master Groslow—look out for the king. ” And in spite of his extraordinary self-control there was a strange vibration in the Gascon ’ s voice which made his partner start .
It was at the moment when she was plunged in the deepest and darkest of these reflections that the door of the chamber opened , and the king entered .
“ My lord , ” said Athos , “ we are satisfied ; we came here only to express our loyalty and to say that we are at your lordship ’ s service and his most faithful servants. ” “ My most faithful friends , gentlemen , my most faithful friends ; you have proved it .
“ Yes , but it was fated that I should not keep it. ” “ So , then , we are all right as regards the executioner , ” said Athos ; “ but unfortunately every executioner has his assistant , his man , or whatever you call him. ” “ And this one had his , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but , as good luck would have it , just as I thought I should have two affairs to manage , our friend was brought home with a broken leg .
At this moment a patrol passed by .
“ Well , my friend , there is not a moment to lose ; we must let the king know immediately. ” “ Why , what is the matter ? ” “ It would take too long to tell you , besides , you will hear it all directly and the least word dropped here might ruin all .
“ It is unnecessary to say that from the day I saw Raoul I loved him ; nevertheless , believe that I heartily pray that I may not become to him a father , however much I might be proud of such a son .
“ Why ? ” “ I do not know .
“ Ho !
? ” “ No , Louis XVIII. ” “ The brother of Louis XVI . !
I have taught you how to handle a sword ; you have thews of iron , a wrist of steel .
and the Commencement of the Reign of King Louis XIV. ” It may be easily imagined how great was our joy when , in turning over this manuscript , our last hope , we found at the twentieth page the name of Athos , at the twenty-seventh the name of Porthos , and at the thirty-first the name of Aramis .
Remember , it is you who have ruined me ! ” “ Yes , yes , to be sure , Kitty , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ be at ease , my girl .
“ Oh , it is impossible , ” said he , “ I must be dreaming !
Bonacieux indeed reflected on what had just been said to him .
Dantès turned pale , hesitated , and reflected .
The duke waited until midnight , turning on his mattress like St. Laurence on his gridiron .
The galley-slaves breathed the fresh air of heaven , and saw each other .
How should I know what a horse is ?
be Christians !
Nor was this all .
THE RETURN Chapter XXIX .
D ’ Artagnan ran after her .
And yet we must be drawing near the disclosure. ” “ M .
“ No , my friend , ” replied Athos , in his gentle but decided voice , “ we came here to defend King Charles ; we have but ill defended him—it remains for us to save him ! ” “ To save the king ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , looking at Aramis as he had looked at Athos .
Upon my honor , this man fancies the world belongs to him .
An approaching battle was much spoken of , the prince having manoeuvred , until that movement , only in order to await a reinforcement that had just reached him .
All three then sat down with their heads together and their ears on the alert .
His boots were covered with dust , and he inquired if he could not instantly cross over to England .
A Summer Ball The same day during the interview between Madame Danglars and the procureur , a travelling-carriage entered the Rue du Helder , passed through the gateway of No .
D ’ Artagnan , I ask your pardon for having yesterday crossed swords with you ; Aramis does the same to Porthos ; now hate me if you can ; but for my own part , I shall ever , even if you do hate me , retain esteem and friendship for you .
“ I will carry the letter in the lining of my coat , ” said Planchet ; “ and if I am taken I will swallow it. ” “ Well , but then you will not be able to fulfill your commission , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ I was blind ; Athos has made me see , that ’ s all ; come here. ” The two friends went near him .
“ My God , yes , _gave_ , that is the word , ” said Porthos ; “ for the animal was worth at least a hundred and fifty louis , and the stingy fellow would only give me eighty. ” “ Without the saddle ? ” said Aramis .
It was cold and motionless .
The door had been opened , and shut again ; the mercer ’ s pretty wife had disappeared .
He offered his arm to the countess ; she took it , or rather just touched it with her little hand , and they together descended the steps , lined with rhododendrons and camellias .
Why , I ’ ll wager I can go up into the belfry of the Accoules , and without staggering , too ! ” “ Done ! ” said Danglars , “ I ’ ll take your bet ; but tomorrow—today it is time to return .
But as we have said he was active , strong , and full of presence of mind .
“ Because , after nightfall , you are not safe fifty yards from the gates. ” “ On your honor , is that true ? ” cried Albert .
Bonacieux ; “ you have perhaps some jewels you would like to take. ” “ I have his letters , ” said she .
In the meanwhile the promises of M. de Tréville went on prosperously .
M. d ’ Avrigny said he believed they both proceeded from poison ; and you , honest man , have ever since been asking your heart and sounding your conscience to know if you ought to expose or conceal this secret .
On receiving the warning letter you wrote to me , I had this woman arrested , and gave her in charge to a loyal servant .
But Raoul was not at the Hotel du Grand Charlemagne .
At the same time the door was opened .
Alone in his usual room , lighted by two candles , the condemned monarch gazed sadly on the luxury of his past greatness , just as at the last hour one sees the images of life more mildly brilliant than of yore .
“ But , ” said Morrel , “ the culprit—the murderer—the assassin. ” “ Do not alarm yourself , sir ; justice will be done , ” said Villefort .
“ Read. ” This word was pronounced in a manner impossible to describe .
“ And I , too , ” he exclaimed in a low voice , “ I unite with M. Morrel in demanding justice for crime ; my blood boils at the idea of having encouraged a murderer by my cowardly concession. ” “ Oh , merciful Heavens ! ” murmured Villefort .
Debray , who was slightly disturbed at this visit , recovered himself when he saw the calmness of the baroness , and took up a book marked by a mother-of-pearl knife inlaid with gold .
The wretches were dancing .
You wore a close ruff , a small cap upon your head of the same color as your robe , and in that cap a heron ’ s feather .
My first visit was to the thicket .
Has anyone been speaking to you against me ? ” “ Yes , ” said the old man ’ s look , with eagerness .
“ Oh , we can scarcely say .
Faria had now fully regained his consciousness , but he still lay helpless and exhausted on his miserable bed .
The other room near the library was a bedroom .
Add these four to the nine others , that would be thirteen days lost—thirteen days , during which so many important events might pass in London .
“ You have one second to decide , ” said he .
Mordaunt rapidly sprang back a step .
Then he had eaten some without saying a word more ; Danglars , therefore , concluded that such luxuries were common at the table of the illustrious descendant of the Cavalcanti , who most likely in Lucca fed upon trout brought from Switzerland , and lobsters sent from England , by the same means used by the count to bring the lampreys from Lake Fusaro , and the sterlet from the Volga .
“ A tailor , ” said the host ; “ and for what ? ” “ To make us between now and tomorrow two Roman peasant costumes , ” returned Albert .
Athos mounted more slowly , after speaking in a low voice to the lackey , who , instead of following them immediately , returned to their rooms .
Hardly had D ’ Artagnan seen , through a crevice in his closet , that the whole apartment was in obscurity , than he slipped out of his concealment , at the very moment when Kitty reclosed the door of communication .
The gardens were illuminated with colored lanterns , according to the Italian custom , and , as is usual in countries where the luxuries of the table—the rarest of all luxuries in their complete form—are well understood , the supper-table was loaded with wax-lights and flowers .
They threw themselves upon me .
“ What do you say ? ” inquired Charles , rising .
The inspector could not contend against this accusation ; he simply wrote , _Nothing to be done._ This visit had infused new vigor into Dantès ; he had , till then , forgotten the date ; but now , with a fragment of plaster , he wrote the date , 30th July , 1816 , and made a mark every day , in order not to lose his reckoning again .
“ I shall require your services to see that all be properly arranged .
But a woman who wanders in the streets at this hour only ventures out to meet her lover .
wilt thou allow the frightful projects of this man to be accomplished ? ” Then only she pretended to hear the sound of Felton ’ s steps , and rising quick as thought , she blushed , as if ashamed of being surprised on her knees .
You start for Paris ?
28 ; ’ it is indeed the same , ” said he ; “ and now , am I to rely upon an avowal extorted by religious or physical terror ?
In the excess of his zeal he had accompanied the cart containing the scaffolding as far as the king ’ s window , and one of the crossbeams fell on his leg and broke it. ” “ Ah ! ” cried Aramis , “ that accounts for the cry I heard. ” “ Probably , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ but as he is a thoughtful young man he promised to send four expert workmen in his place to help those already at the scaffold , and wrote the moment he was brought home to Master Tom Lowe , an assistant carpenter and friend of his , to go down to Whitehall , with three of his friends .
You were still fast asleep , and I did not know what to do with myself ; I was still stupid from our yesterday ’ s debauch .
I will say and do nothing until I am convinced that he has quite abandoned me , and then—— ” Andrea had formed a plan which was tolerably clever .
“ It would indeed be strange if—— ” she checked herself .
At the expiration of a minute or two , it appeared to D ’ Artagnan that M. Dessessart made him a sign to approach .
He turned towards Noirtier ; the pallor and anguish expressed on his countenance momentarily increased .
And now , my lord , that I see how hopeless the position of the king is , tell me with what you are charged on the part of my royal husband. ” “ Well , then , madame , ” said De Winter , “ the king wishes you to try and discover the dispositions of the king and queen toward him. ” “ Alas !
At last he heard the voice of La Ramee .
“ Indeed , my dear friend , ” said Beauchamp first , who had either the most feeling or the least dissimulation , “ allow me to congratulate you ; this is a very unhoped-for conclusion of a very disagreeable affair. ” Albert remained silent and wrapped in thought .
“ Leave them , ” said Monte Cristo .
Milady knew the rest .
When I am dead , you will go and examine it. ” “ What ? ” said Morrel , “ you dead ? ” “ Yes ; must I not be prepared for everything , dear friend ?
One may be a jailer or a keeper and at the same time a good father and husband .
“ My hand ? ” said she .
Then , calling Planchet , he said , “ Now , my lad , you may claim your seven hundred livres , but you did not run much risk with such a note as that. ” “ I am not to blame for having tried every means to compress it , ” said Planchet .
“ Are you satisfied , my lord ? ” he asked .
At length they arrived at the cemetery .
You do not believe me ? ” “ My lord , I never believe cardinals who are not priests. ” “ Well , on the faith of a minister. ” “ You are no longer a minister , my lord ; you are a prisoner. ” “ Then , on the honor of a Mazarin , as I am and ever shall be , I hope , ” said the cardinal .
In a few moments the young girl had attracted the attention of the whole house , and even the occupants of the boxes leaned forward to scrutinize her magnificent diamonds .
At last the half-hour struck .
“ My dear , ” said she , as she took the pen , “ is it not vexatious ?
Athos looked at his watch .
“ Holloa ! ” said he , “ what does that mean ? ” “ If Monseigneur will have the goodness to tell me , in the first place , what crimes are imputed to me , I will then tell him the deeds I have really done. ” “ Crimes are imputed to you which had brought down far loftier heads than yours , monsieur , ” said the cardinal .
’ tis you , La Ramee ; in faith , ’ tis time you came back again .
The most profound terror reigned throughout the house .
As the mayor had foreseen , the sight of the guards had exasperated the mob .
“ ‘ Yes , my prince. ’ ” “ My prince ! ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan .
“ Lord Wilmore resided in Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges .
Confused sights and sounds seemed to float before me , and gradually I fell into a deep , heavy slumber .
D ’ Artagnan hits on a Plan .
By the light of the wretched and wavering lamp , of which we have spoken , Dantès saw the old man , pale , but yet erect , clinging to the bedstead .
Beware that I do not write to you a fourth time to tell you that I detest you .
“ Come , come , gentlemen , ” said Mordaunt , impatiently , “ let us depart. ” “ What ! ” exclaimed Porthos “ without supper ?
Monte Cristo , in taking the seat Morcerf offered him , placed himself in such a manner as to remain concealed in the shadow of the large velvet curtains , and read on the careworn and livid features of the count a whole history of secret griefs written in each wrinkle time had planted there .
At the sight of his friend , Porthos uttered a loud cry of joy ; and Mousqueton , rising respectfully , yielded his place to him , and went to give an eye to the two stewpans , of which he appeared to have the particular inspection .
Sometimes she stood mute and motionless as a statue , looking towards Marseilles , at other times gazing on the sea , and debating as to whether it were not better to cast herself into the abyss of the ocean , and thus end her woes .
I will try and gain a little sleep , for you are saved. ” “ Go , ” said Valentine , “ whatever happens , I promise you not to fear. ” Monte Cristo for some time kept his eyes fixed on the young girl , who gradually fell asleep , yielding to the effects of the narcotic the count had given her .
“ You have , then , decided to come to England again , ” said Lord de Winter , “ in spite of the resolutions you so often expressed in Paris never to set your feet on British ground ? ” Milady replied to this question by another question .
“ Now saddle the other three horses. ” “ Do you think , then , monsieur , that we shall travel faster with two horses apiece ? ” said Planchet , with his shrewd air .
He was on the point of sending the letter to the commissary of police , notwithstanding the advice of his anonymous friend , or perhaps because of that advice , when suddenly the idea occurred to him that it might be some personal enemy , whom he alone should recognize and over whom , if such were the case , he alone would gain any advantage , as Fiesco17 had done over the Moor who would have killed him .
He leaped with Planchet into the boat , and five minutes after they were on board .
“ See what they have done ! ” cried Morrel , with one hand leaning on the back of the chair , and the other extended towards Valentine .
He told me that he was anxious to restore you to the position which you had lost , and that he would seek your father until he found him .
He comprehended that the musket had not come there of itself , and that he who bore it had not concealed himself behind a hedge with any friendly intentions .
So now , you are both forewarned. ” The young men bowed , and quitted the box .
Do you , Aramis , order the servants .
“ Patience , ” said Athos , whose eyes were fixed in the direction of the Rue du Bac , “ patience ; I see an abbé cuffing a man , then bowing to a woman ; it must be Aramis. ” It was indeed Aramis .
You must take Grimaud and Olivain. ” “ Both , sir ? ” asked Raoul , astonished .
In the morning Milady , under the pretext that she had not slept well in the night and wanted rest , sent away the woman who attended her .
He forgot all that was dark in the past and that was cloudy in the future .
“ I suppose that you think it necessary that I should disturb the repose of these illustrious lords to say , ‘ Gentlemen , your servant , Mousqueton , is thirsty. ’ What does Monsieur Bracieux care , think you , whether I am thirsty or not ? ” “ ’ Tis a very expensive wine , ” said Blaisois , shaking his head .
However , you will be better informed as to me and my possessions ere long. ” And the count , while pronouncing these latter words , accompanied them with one of those ghastly smiles that used to strike terror into poor Franz d ’ Épinay .
“ And now , ” said the unknown , “ farewell kindness , humanity , and gratitude !
Athos , who was very expert in all bodily exercises , passed with D ’ Artagnan to the opposite side and challenged them ; but at the first effort he made , although he played with his left hand , he found that his wound was yet too recent to allow of such exertion .
The sergeant and his men took possession of the little garden .
“ Ah , this time you can not lose ground , my fine friend ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan .
Here is what the letter contained : MILADY , Be at the first ball at which the Duke of Buckingham shall be present .
“ Felton , ” said Milady , with a solemnity full of melancholy , “ imagine that your sister , the daughter of your father , speaks to you .
The injured man had recovered his senses .
This noise acted upon her joy like the storm which awakens the sleeper in the midst of a happy dream ; she grew pale and ran to the window , while Mme .
And yet , in all this , the cardinal had not yet said a word about the Duke of Buckingham .
“ It is the declaration of Cardinal Spada , and the will so long sought for , ” replied Edmond , still incredulous .
I do not hold life dear enough to be afraid of death. ” “ Yes , I know you are a man of a stout heart , monsieur , ” said the cardinal , with a voice almost affectionate ; “ I can therefore tell you beforehand you shall be tried , and even condemned. ” “ Another might reply to your Eminence that he had his pardon in his pocket .
D ’ Artagnan , placed in line with his company , saluted with an expressive gesture his three friends , whose eyes soon discovered him , and M. de Tréville , who detected him at once .
Constance ? ” replied the young man , “ where are you ?
Ordinarily M. de Villefort made and returned very few visits .
Are we softened a little ?
“ Is it you ? ” said he ; “ I am here. ” “ Is your jailer gone ? ” “ Yes , ” said Dantès ; “ he will not return until the evening ; so that we have twelve hours before us. ” “ I can work , then ? ” said the voice .
The prisoner himself is named Edmond Dantès , mate on board the three-master the _Pharaon_ , trading in cotton with Alexandria and Smyrna , and belonging to Morrel & Son , of Marseilles. ” “ Before he entered the merchant service , had he ever served in the marines ? ” “ Oh , no , monsieur , he is very young. ” “ How old ? ” “ Nineteen or twenty at the most. ” At this moment , and as Villefort had arrived at the corner of the Rue des Conseils , a man , who seemed to have been waiting for him , approached ; it was M. Morrel .
The queen was seated on a fauteuil and before her were standing two or three gentlemen , and among them the Duc de Chatillon , the brother of the nobleman killed eight or nine years previously in a duel on account of Madame de Longueville , on the Place Royale .
“ I have a son .
Dantès ran down the rocks at the risk of being himself dashed to pieces ; he listened , he groped about , but he heard and saw nothing—the cries had ceased , and the tempest continued to rage .
that ’ s another thing , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and I should not mind waiting in London a whole year for a chance of meeting this Mordaunt in question .
“ Ah !
The globe of the lamp appeared of a reddish hue , and the flame , brightening before it expired , threw out the last flickerings which in an inanimate object have been so often compared with the convulsions of a human creature in its final agonies .
U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff .
With his elbows on the table he sat between the two empty bottles , while spectres danced in the light of the unsnuffed candle—spectres such as Hoffmann strews over his punch-drenched pages , like black , fantastic dust .
At the sight of the stranger , M. Morrel closed the ledger , arose , and offered a seat to the stranger ; and when he had seen him seated , resumed his own chair .
His words were brief and expressive , conveying all that was meant , and no more ; no embellishments , no embroidery , no arabesques .
We are not on duty , and we believed that not being on duty we were at liberty to dispose of our time as we pleased .
Felton grew pale .
Grimaud Speaks .
They ask where I was born ; I answer .
“ That is to say , ” replied Milady , driven into her entrenchment , “ that I have not the honor of knowing her personally ; but I know a great number of her most intimate friends .
The prince read as he hastened on .
He had stopped a moment in the passage to listen at a door , and Maximilian and Emmanuel , who had considerately passed forward a few steps , thought they heard him answer by a sigh to a sob from within .
Athos was invited four times , and each time took his friends and their lackeys with him .
“ Father , father , in Heaven ’ s name , ” exclaimed the young man , “ what are these weapons for ? ” “ Maximilian , ” replied Morrel , looking fixedly at his son , “ you are a man , and a man of honor .
I fancied that I still heard faint moans , and imagining that the unfortunate jeweller might not be quite dead , I determined to go to his relief , by way of atoning in some slight degree , not for the crime I had committed , but for that which I had not endeavored to prevent .
But wait a moment , do not let us get angry , or at least not yet .
He was now fairly launched in that Parisian society which gives such ready access to foreigners , and treats them , not as they really are , but as they wish to be considered .
Hoarse shouts were heard from the excited mob .
Lord de Winter , D ’ Artagnan , Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , went out close behind her .
I implored heaven that he might come .
I parted from him two years ago at Palermo , and he was then on the point of setting out for the most remote regions ; so that I fear he will never return. ” “ Oh , monsieur , this is cruel of you , ” said Julie , much affected ; and the young lady ’ s eyes swam with tears .
This manoeuvre , transparent to the Duc de Beaufort , was quite unintelligible to La Ramee .
He then formed a resolution .
D ’ Artagnan passed the day in exhibiting his Musketeer ’ s uniform in every street of the camp .
“ To fall , ” continued King Louis , who at the first glance had sounded the abyss on which the monarchy hung suspended , — “ to fall , and learn of that fall by telegraph !
Row , Porthos , row. ” And setting the example he plowed his oar into the sea ; two strokes took the bark on twenty fathoms further .
What appears to you to emanate from a celestial source , seems to me to proceed from one far less pure .
The young man sprang to the entrance , darted through it , carefully drawing the stone over the opening , and hurried to his cell .
In all other respects she was the same mad creature who threw over her amours such an air of originality as to make them proverbial for eccentricity in her family .
The king entertained great regard for my father , who had fallen at the siege of Arras , and the uniform was granted .
Porthos and Aramis regarded each other , not understanding this assurance of Athos .
“ Now , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ go up to your room again ; and in ten minutes , I will answer for it , you shall have all you desire. ” The Englishmen bowed and went upstairs .
At the end of a hundred paces , the ground began to decline , and he could only see the mast of the sloop .
“ What a Puritan you are ! ” said he ; “ that happens every day. ” “ But you can not break it off in this way ; the Morcerfs are depending on this union. ” “ Indeed. ” “ Positively. ” “ Then let them explain themselves ; you should give the father a hint , you are so intimate with the family. ” “ I ? —where the devil did you find out that ? ” “ At their ball ; it was apparent enough .
Slumber refused to visit his eyelids and the night was passed in feverish contemplation of the chain of circumstances tending to prove the identity of the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum with the inhabitant of the grotto of Monte Cristo ; and the more he thought , the firmer grew his opinion on the subject .
The abbé shook his head .
His eyes remained open and menacing .
Maximilian shuddered .
“ You have forgotten it , Porthos ? ” said he .
“ Tell me , ” he said— “ tell me what you want ? ” “ Well , then , I want you to take me up in your fine carriage , and carry me back. ” Andrea turned pale , but said nothing .
The next morning , as soon as he awoke , Danglars asked for the newspapers ; they were brought to him ; he laid aside three or four , and at last fixed on _l ’ Impartial_ , the paper of which Beauchamp was the chief editor .
one may soon see that you ’ re a soldier .
The door opened , and Monte Cristo , turning round , saw Albert , pale and trembling , followed by Beauchamp and Château-Renaud .
The host gave them another chamber , and served them with fresh eggs and some water , which Athos went himself to draw at the fountain .
He remained there some time alone .
your honor ! ” cried Planchet , “ I ’ ve a man behind me. ” D ’ Artagnan turned around and plainly saw two human forms on Planchet ’ s horse .
M. de Tréville was not at his hôtel .
There , caressing as he pretended , the animal with his hand , he put this bit of burning tinder in his ear .
Ali , bring me some water. ” The count turned up his sleeves , and passed into the little vestibule where the gentlemen were accustomed to wash their hands after shooting .
“ The fifth part of the profits from this stone belongs to us then , does it not ? ” asked Caderousse .
Go away now , Mouston. ” “ So he ’ s called Mouston , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ ’ tis too long a word to pronounce ‘ Mousqueton. ’ ” “ Well , ” he said aloud , “ let us resume our conversation later , your people may suspect something ; there may be spies about .
He had divined in the past of this woman terrible things which his red mantle alone could cover ; and he felt , from one cause or another , that this woman was his own , as she could look to no other but himself for a support superior to the danger which threatened her .
After this second part of his discourse , fixing his hawk ’ s eye upon poor Bonacieux , he bade him reflect upon the gravity of his situation .
Oh , I am dying !
It seemed to him as if he had not taken a sufficient farewell of his beloved daughter .
“ Certainly , ” said Monte Cristo , slightly shrugging his shoulders ; “ otherwise I would not fight with M. de Morcerf .
Four men carried me from Paris to Châlons , walking six leagues a day ; Madame de Villefort followed the litter in her carriage .
At the letter S the old man stopped her .
“ The best swordsman in the kingdom , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Suddenly he heard a cry—it was his daughter ’ s voice .
At this movement , which nobody opposed , he resumed a little courage , and ventured to draw up one leg and then the other .
That sigh was the soul , so chaste and so loving , which reascended to heaven .
A similar signal replied to him ; and five minutes after , a boat appeared , rowed by four men .
The king , in return , looked at the four gentlemen and drank with a smile full of nobility and gratitude .
All at once he heard his bolts drawn , and made a terrified bound .
_La Jeune Amélie_ was first at the rendezvous .
Once again , silence !
“ ‘ Well , well , ’ said the jeweller , ‘ you seem , my good friends , to have had some fears respecting the accuracy of your money , by counting it over so carefully directly I was gone. ’ “ ‘ Oh , no , ’ answered Caderousse , ‘ that was not my reason , I can assure you ; but the circumstances by which we have become possessed of this wealth are so unexpected , as to make us scarcely credit our good fortune , and it is only by placing the actual proof of our riches before our eyes that we can persuade ourselves that the whole affair is not a dream. ’ “ The jeweller smiled .
de Château-Renaud—M .
They had , besides , to look constantly to their own proper safety ; Milady was a phantom which , when it had once appeared to people , did not allow them to sleep very quietly .
“ So you defend him !
It was a chamber whose furniture was at once appropriate for a prisoner or a free man ; and yet bars at the windows and outside bolts at the door decided the question in favor of the prison .
The Rue Richelieu and the Rue Villedot were then , owing to their vicinity to the ramparts , less frequented than any others in that direction , for the town was thinly inhabited thereabout .
“ Sign , my Lord ; sign the liberation of Milady de Winter , ” said Felton , holding out a paper to the duke .
It was then that D ’ Artagnan appreciated the favor the cardinal had conferred upon him in making him at last enter the Musketeers—for without that circumstance he would have been forced to remain in the camp while his companions left it .
“ What ails you , baron ? ” he exclaimed .
We will keep on the frontiers , for instance ; and at the first alarm we can leave France. ” “ And what can we do there ? ” “ Wait. ” “ But if they come ? ” “ My brother ’ s carriage will be here first. ” “ If I should happen to be any distance from you when the carriage comes for you—at dinner or supper , for instance ? ” “ Do one thing. ” “ What is that ? ” “ Tell your good superior that in order that we may be as much together as possible , you ask her permission to share my repast. ” “ Will she permit it ? ” “ What inconvenience can it be ? ” “ Oh , delightful !
Let us meet again as capital seconds in a duel , devoted friends in business , merry companions in our ancient pleasures. ” “ And whenever , ” added Athos , “ we meet in battle , at this word , ‘ Place Royale ! ’ let us put our swords into our left hands and shake hands with the right , even in the very lust and music of the hottest carnage. ” “ You speak charmingly , ” said Porthos .
He had therefore purchased a vault , which was quickly occupied by members of his family .
Everywhere the last requests of a dying man are sacred ; but with a sailor the last requests of his superior are commands .
The timely Arrival of D ’ Artagnan in Paris .
“ By my soul , ” said Aramis , “ she is charming .
“ We are all mortal , my poor friends. ” “ You are late , my dear Porthos. ” “ Yes , there were some people on the way who delayed me .
Devil take me if I ’ ve ever been so happy as at this moment. ” And he wiped his eyes , still moist .
At this moment the accuser concluded with these words : “ The present accusation is preferred by us in the name of the English people. ” At these words there was a murmur along the benches , and a second voice , not that of a woman , but a man ’ s , stout and furious , thundered behind D ’ Artagnan .
“ ’ Tis a last resource , but let us not employ it till it is imperatively called for ; let us rather persevere in our researches. ” They continued their inquiries and at last met with a light dragoon who had formed one of the guard which had escorted D ’ Artagnan to Rueil .
Are there any others ? ” “ Yes ; the dangerous and mad prisoners are in the dungeons. ” “ Let us visit them , ” said the inspector with an air of fatigue .
‘ Here , ’ he said , ‘ I am very straightforward in my dealings—take your choice. ’ “ The woman selected a gold chain worth about five louis , and the husband a pair of buckles , worth perhaps fifteen francs .
He had not been more than ten minutes in the drawing-room before he drew Danglars aside into the recess of a bow-window , and , after an ingenious preamble , related to him all his anxieties and cares since his noble father ’ s departure .
I am going away the day after tomorrow. ” “ Do what you please , Monsieur Chevalier .
Come , gentlemen , come. ” And Albert , followed by Franz and the count , descended the staircase , crossed the square chamber , where stood all the bandits , hat in hand .
“ Come , come , ” said Maximilian , “ I will serve as your guide ; such a man as you are ought not to be introduced by a servant .
“ ‘ Oh , ’ returned she , ‘ it was a gift of heaven .
do you know that ?
Then he laid it down , seized his pen , and wrote a few words .
You will ruin both yourself and me by your folly. ” “ How so ? ” said Andrea .
Besides , repentance becomes the guilty ; whatever crimes they may have committed , for me the guilty are sacred at the feet of God ! ” “ Guilty ?
She felt by intuition the flame of the opposing passions which burned with the blood in the veins of the young fanatic .
At one moment , bathed as they were in a flood of brilliant light , which illumined the sea for the space of a league , they might each be seen , each by his own peculiar attitude and manner expressing the awe which , even in their hearts of bronze , they could not help experiencing .
that little man in black that you upset at the corner of Saint Jean Cemetery ? ” “ That ’ s the man , my dear fellow ; he was an annoyance to the cardinal .
The latter and the coadjutor touched the brush with the tips of their fingers and made the sign of the cross ; the coadjutor threw a piece of money into the hat , which was on the ground .
Franz , who had mutely interrogated the countess , and received from her a gracious smile in token that he would be welcome , sought not to retard the gratification of Albert ’ s eager impatience , but began at once the tour of the house , closely followed by Albert , who availed himself of the few minutes required to reach the opposite side of the theatre to settle the height and smoothness of his collar , and to arrange the lappets of his coat .
my lord duke , ’ tis the height of ingratitude ; but your highness has never seriously thought of it ? ” “ Yes , ” returned the duke , “ I must confess I sometimes think of it. ” “ Still by one of your forty methods , your highness ? ” “ Yes , yes , indeed. ” “ My lord , ” said La Ramee , “ now we are quite at our ease and enjoying ourselves , pray tell me one of those forty ways invented by your highness. ” “ Willingly , ” answered the duke , “ give me the pie ! ” “ I am listening , ” said La Ramee , leaning back in his armchair and raising his glass of Madeira to his lips , and winking his eye that he might see the sun through the rich liquid that he was about to taste .
It goes without saying that this impatience to return toward Paris had for a cause the danger which Mme .
This manifestation on the part of the spectators of their wish to be allowed to hear the music , produced not the slightest effect on the two young men , who continued their conversation .
the vessel in which you wished to fry us is still smoking ; and the situation in which you are is a bed of roses compared to that in which you wished to place us and in which you have placed Monsieur Groslow and his companions. ” “ Sir ! ” replied Mordaunt , in a tone of deep despair , “ my penitence is sincere .
God is wearied ; he has punished you. ” Caderousse was fast sinking .
“ You are welcome , count ! ” she exclaimed , as he entered .
I uttered a cry of joy ; the only moments of sadness I had known since the assassination of the procureur were caused by the recollection that I had abandoned this child .
Ah , my dear Aramis , this time I shall find you out. ” And D ’ Artagnan , making himself as small as he could , concealed himself in the darkest side of the street near a stone bench placed at the back of a niche .
“ Sir , ” he said , “ are you disposed to confer a great obligation on an unhappy father who has just lost his daughter ?
“ Yes , to a convent. ” “ And to which ? ” “ I don ’ t know ; the secret has been well kept. ” “ But _I_ will know ! ” “ And your Eminence will tell me in what convent that woman is ? ” “ I can see nothing inconvenient in that , ” said the cardinal .
The boy undertook the commission , promising to be in Frosinone in less than an hour .
It was not their proximity that alarmed us , for detachments were constantly patrolling along the banks of the Rhône , but the care , according to the boy ’ s account , that they took to avoid being seen .
The hand moved on with incredible rapidity , he seemed to see its motion .
There were moments when , looking at Grimaud , the duke asked himself if he was not dreaming and if that marble figure was really at his service and would grow animated when the moment came for action .
Mute with horror , the three friends had remained open-mouthed , their eyes dilated , their arms extended like statues , and , motionless as they were , the beating of their hearts was audible .
We hope that the reader has not quite forgotten the young traveler whom we left on the road to Flanders .
Bonacieux whom the boatman had noticed .
“ Listen , ” said Morcerf— “ if Mademoiselle Danglars were disposed to take pity on my supposed martyrdom on her account , and would dispense with all matrimonial formalities between our two families , I am ready to agree to the arrangement .
Speak , ” said Charles , attempting to look across the hedge of guards which surrounded him .
He who was thus looking , without being heard or seen , probably heard and saw all that passed in Madame de Morcerf ’ s apartments .
there was a musketeer who was in love with one of my women .
“ Our mission is ended , and there is nothing more to detain us now but the good pleasure of the great man to whom we were sent. ” The young man bit his lips and whispered to his sergeant : “ You will follow these men and not lose sight of them ; when you have discovered where they lodge , come and await me at the town gate. ” The sergeant made a sign of comprehension .
0311m Edmond preserved the most admirable self-command , not suffering the faintest indication of a smile to escape him at the enumeration of all the benefits he would have reaped had he been able to quit the island ; but as _La Jeune Amélie_ had merely come to Monte Cristo to fetch him away , he embarked that same evening , and proceeded with the captain to Leghorn .
“ Indeed , you only wanted misfortune to change my love for you to admiration .
The names have been purposely concealed ; my father himself does not know who this president was , and if he knows , he can not tell you ; proper names are not in the dictionary. ” “ Oh , misery , ” cried Franz : “ the only hope which sustained me and enabled me to read to the end was that of knowing , at least , the name of him who killed my father !
I tell you , marquis , my fortune is made if I only reach the Tuileries the first , for the king will not forget the service I do him. ” “ In that case go and get ready .
“ There is no doubt they went thither to fight themselves. ” “ I do not accuse them , sire ; but I leave your Majesty to judge what five armed men could possibly be going to do in such a deserted place as the neighborhood of the Convent des Carmes. ” “ Yes , you are right , Tréville , you are right ! ” “ Then , upon seeing my Musketeers they changed their minds , and forgot their private hatred for partisan hatred ; for your Majesty can not be ignorant that the Musketeers , who belong to the king and nobody but the king , are the natural enemies of the Guardsmen , who belong to the cardinal. ” “ Yes , Tréville , yes , ” said the king , in a melancholy tone ; “ and it is very sad , believe me , to see thus two parties in France , two heads to royalty .
He tried it on his left hand ; it fit his finger as if made for it .
Throwing down his spit , and ordering his wife to do the same with her broom handle , and the servants with their sticks , he set the first example of commencing an earnest search for the lost letter .
The musketeers , who had already discovered who Mazarin was , followed in profound silence .
“ Oh , ” cried Edmond , “ to think that in half an hour I could join her , did I not fear being questioned , detected , and conveyed back to Marseilles !
The halt at Noyon was but brief , every one there being wrapped in profound sleep .
This separation , which was no more than an unpleasant circumstance , would have certainly become a cause of serious uneasiness if he had been able to guess by what unknown dangers he was surrounded .
The brigadier and two pioneers fell dead ; the rest of the troop took to flight .
“ Yes ; I will accompany you. ” “ But did you not read that I must be alone ? ” said Julie .
I have been brought up by monsieur le comte with the intention , I believe , of making me a soldier ; and he gave me reason to hope that at Paris he would present me to some one who would recommend me to the favor of the prince. ” “ Yes , I understand it well .
Debray , to whom she had run , with the first instinct of a woman towards the man she loves , and who yet betrays her , —Debray could but give her advice , she must apply to someone more powerful than he .
“ And grandpapa ? ” inquired the young girl , trembling with apprehension .
This movement revealed the spot where Winter ’ s body had fallen .
I should want a porter. ” “ Well , leave them with your porter ; he is to be trusted .
Allow me to take a glass of water in your apartment ; you know that is never refused among neighbors. ” Without waiting for the permission of his host , D ’ Artagnan went quickly into the house , and cast a rapid glance at the bed .
But go on , what about the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques ? ” “ Why , they induced General Quesnel to go there , and General Quesnel , who quitted his own house at nine o ’ clock in the evening , was found the next day in the Seine. ” 0151m “ And who told you this fine story ? ” “ The king himself. ” “ Well , then , in return for your story , ” continued Noirtier , “ I will tell you another. ” “ My dear father , I think I already know what you are about to tell me. ” “ Ah , you have heard of the landing of the emperor ? ” “ Not so loud , father , I entreat of you—for your own sake as well as mine .
Chapter XXV .
The moment she lost sight of him , Milady tumbled fainting into her chamber .
“ I do not know , but he wishes to speak to you. ” “ Ah ? ” said Monte Cristo , “ I trust he is not going to tempt me by some fresh insult ! ” “ I do not think that such is his intention , ” said Morrel .
The Marriage Feast Chapter 6 .
I became angry ; he began to laugh , I threatened to strike him , and he made two steps backwards .
The first impulse of these three , and of those who last entered , was to cast an inquiring glance at each other .
The young man , prepared for this scene by the state of his own feelings , which were mournful , and by the majesty of the cathedral which he had passed through , descended in a slow and solemn manner and stood with head uncovered before these mortal spoils of the last king , who was not to be placed by the side of his forefathers until his successor should take his place there ; and who appeared to abide on that spot , that he might thus address human pride , so sure to be exalted by the glories of a throne : “ Dust of the earth !
He opened the door quickly ; and Milady saw him appear , pale as usual , but with his eye inflamed and almost wild .
They soon tired of the sport .
‘ Oh , ’ said he , ‘ this is very nice weather , and two leagues to go in such a storm. ’ “ ‘ Remain , ’ said Caderousse .
“ Yes. ” “ In landed property ? ” “ No. ” “ In stock ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The stock is in your own hands ? ” The look which M. Noirtier cast on Barrois showed that there was something wanting which he knew where to find .
For forty years , he produced and distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support .
The breakfast consisted of a piece of bread ; the jailer entered and placed the bread on the table .
“ Yet I think I hear her piano. ” “ It is Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly , who is playing while Mademoiselle Danglars is in bed. ” “ Well , ” said Madame Danglars , “ come and undress me. ” They entered the bedroom .
I ask you what year is it ? ” “ The year 1829 , ” returned Jacopo .
An hour afterwards the carriage was again ordered , and this time it went to the Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges , and stopped at No .
The authorities were not in a condition to cope with serious revolt .
“ Do not be alarmed , Maximilian ; it is nothing , and has already passed away .
Now kiss me ; and you , too , Charlotte .
“ The prince ! ” exclaimed at the same moment Athos and Aramis , unmasking as they addressed the Duc de Beaufort , whilst D ’ Artagnan and Porthos stepped backward .
There , what do you think now of the affair ?
“ But , ” he said , “ the count ’ s generosity is too overwhelming ; Valentine will be satisfied with my humble fortune .
Caderousse , terrified , looked at the count .
These men are going to behead your father .
And this bed with red hangings , a bed visited by the goddess Lucina ?
Porthos rose , always ready for this kind of adventure .
“ _Au revoir_ , then ; that is all I have to say today .
‘ Give me the pocket-book , La Carconte , and find a bag somewhere. ’ “ La Carconte went to a cupboard , and returned with an old leathern pocket-book and a bag .
“ Yes , ” replied Morcerf , “ but that will plunge my mother into positive grief. ” “ Then do not marry her , ” said the count .
Indeed , I expected it , for it is a family inheritance ; both my father and grandfather died of it in a third attack .
You have lived three years in Paris ?
His mother , the councillor ’ s old servant , opened it .
I am a priest , sir , and the secrets of confession , for instance , must remain between me and God , and not between me and human justice. ” “ Do not alarm yourself , monsieur , we will duly respect your conscience. ” At this moment the abbé pressed down his side of the shade and so raised it on the other , throwing a bright light on the stranger ’ s face , while his own remained obscured .
And how ? ” “ By the queen ’ s almoner , to whom I am very intimately allied , ” said Aramis , coloring .
Contrary to the custom of a man so firm and decided , there was this morning in his personal appearance something tardy and irresolute .
Ali then entered bringing coffee and chibouques ; as to M. Baptistin , this portion of the building was interdicted to him .
The order of battle on the morrow was to be that of the positions taken in the evening .
I have only two adversaries—I will not say two conquerors , for with perseverance I subdue even them , —they are time and distance .
To prove to Noirtier that he was in Valentine ’ s confidence and knew all their secrets , Morrel took the dictionary , a pen , and some paper , and placed them all on a table where there was a light .
I was deceived , as it appears , and I ask your pardon. ” “ And what did Monsieur d ’ Artagnan reply ? ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan promised me his assistance ; but I soon found out that he was betraying me. ” “ You impose upon justice .
It is told that the Duc d ’ Antin removed in a single night a whole avenue of trees that annoyed Louis XIV .
He already knew Italian , and had also picked up a little of the Romaic dialect during voyages to the East ; and by the aid of these two languages he easily comprehended the construction of all the others , so that at the end of six months he began to speak Spanish , English , and German .
One of them will weed the parliament in the name of the court , and the other in the name of the people ; and then there won ’ t be any parliament at all. ” “ And who is this Colonel Bridge ? ” asked Aramis , “ and how does he go to work to weed the parliament ? ” “ Colonel Bridge , ” replied the Spaniard , “ is a retired wagoner , a man of much sense , who made one valuable observation whilst driving his team , namely , that where there happened to be a stone on the road , it was much easier to remove the stone than try and make the wheel pass over it .
They would have an easy bargain of four isolated men ; whereas four men together make a troop .
The soil was humid and glittering with the rain which had recently fallen , and the refreshed herbs sent forth their perfume with additional energy .
“ He will not go today , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but here , I ’ ll pay you for us two. ” “ In that case let us go , ” said the shipmaster .
If he wished to go out without gloves , his hands appeared too white ; if he wished to walk through the town , his boots seemed too highly polished .
“ Yes , my poor girl , ” replied Morrel ; “ I come to bring and to hear bad tidings. ” “ This is , indeed , a house of mourning , ” said Valentine ; “ speak , Maximilian , although the cup of sorrow seems already full. ” “ Dear Valentine , ” said Morrel , endeavoring to conceal his own emotion , “ listen , I entreat you ; what I am about to say is very serious .
Debray , Maximilian Morrel , and M. de Château-Renaud. ” “ Did they speak of me ? ” “ Not a word. ” “ So much the worse. ” “ Why so ?
She tried to go toward the window for air , but she could only stretch forth her arms ; her legs failed her , and she sank into an armchair .
Athos had desired Blaisois to try to speak to Aramis himself .
We are friends , are we not ? ” “ Egad !
“ Ah , to see me ? ” said de Winter , cunningly .
“ That is not all , ” resumed Lord de Winter .
At this moment the clock of La Samaritaine struck six ; the four friends pleaded an engagement , and took leave of M. de Tréville .
Chapter LXXIX .
I retreated with the rest , for eight-and-forty hours .
The same day the young man set forward on his journey , furnished with the three paternal gifts , which consisted , as we have said , of fifteen crowns , the horse , and the letter for M. de Tréville—the counsels being thrown into the bargain .
Bertuccio was awaiting this arrival with impatience , mingled with uneasiness ; he hoped for some compliments , while , at the same time , he feared to have frowns .
“ At any rate , ” said she , “ since I am to be married whether I will or not , I ought to be thankful to Providence for having released me from my engagement with M. Albert de Morcerf , or I should this day have been the wife of a dishonored man. ” “ It is true , ” said the baroness , with that strange simplicity sometimes met with among fashionable ladies , and of which plebeian intercourse can never entirely deprive them , — “ it is very true that had not the Morcerfs hesitated , my daughter would have married Monsieur Albert .
“ Don ’ t stir , ” whispered Monte Cristo , “ and put down your hatchet ; we shall require no arms. ” 40154m Then he added some words in a low tone , for the exclamation which surprise had drawn from the count , faint as it had been , had startled the man who remained in the pose of the old knife-grinder .
M. de Monte Cristo has only shown us kindness .
This Gascon is a precious fellow ; even his misadventures are of use. ” The cardinal referred to that man whom D ’ Artagnan upset at the corner of the Cimetiere Saint Jean in Paris , and who was no other than the Councillor Broussel .
“ Well , ” said Morcerf , “ for three days I believed myself the object of the attentions of a masque , whom I took for a descendant of Tullia or Poppæa , while I was simply the object of the attentions of a _contadina_ , and I say _contadina_ to avoid saying peasant girl .
Well , monsieur , he is still here. ” “ Ah , _pardieu ! _ My dear dame , ” said D ’ Artagnan , springing from his horse , and throwing the bridle to Planchet , “ you restore me to life ; where is this dear Aramis ?
As to my orders , since every one gives his own commands in our party , I shall end , if this goes on , by giving none at all. ” “ In short , my lord , ” said Athos , glancing at Aramis , “ your highness is discontented with your party ? ” “ Discontented , sir !
Come , come , ” continued he , patting Edmond ’ s shoulder kindly , “ you did very right , Dantès , to follow Captain Leclere ’ s instructions , and touch at Elba , although if it were known that you had conveyed a packet to the marshal , and had conversed with the emperor , it might bring you into trouble. ” 0027m “ How could that bring me into trouble , sir ? ” asked Dantès ; “ for I did not even know of what I was the bearer ; and the emperor merely made such inquiries as he would of the first comer .
Albert expected to have something new this time to show to the traveller , but , to his great surprise , the latter , without seeking for the signatures , many of which , indeed , were only initials , named instantly the author of every picture in such a manner that it was easy to see that each name was not only known to him , but that each style associated with it had been appreciated and studied by him .
Fortunately , a mendicant passed , who , coming up to Athos to ask charity , Athos offered him half a crown to accompany him where he was going .
All noise in the streets had ceased , and the silence was frightful .
Parry , too , started and stopped reading .
Athos never received any letters ; Athos never had concerns which all his friends did not know .
“ Your age ? ” said the president ; “ will you answer that question ? ” “ I will answer that question , as well as the rest , Mr. President , but in its turn. ” “ Your age ? ” repeated the president .
Certainly these are questions that , in your place , I should like to have answered. ” “ My dear Franz , ” replied Albert , “ when , upon receipt of my letter , you found the necessity of asking the count ’ s assistance , you promptly went to him , saying , ‘ My friend Albert de Morcerf is in danger ; help me to deliver him. ’ Was not that nearly what you said ? ” 20222m “ It was. ” “ Well , then , did he ask you , ‘ Who is M. Albert de Morcerf ?
The king wishes to get a sleep. ” One of the two , who was standing up , was of gigantic size and was driving a pick with all his might into the wall , whilst the other , kneeling beside him , was collecting the pieces of stone .
Speak. ” “ He who has negotiated these matters ( forgive me if I begin by speaking of myself , but I must claim that importance which has been given to me , not assumed by me ) he who has arranged matters for the return of the cardinal , ought , it appears to me , in order that his reward may not be unworthy of your majesty , to be made commandant of the guards—an appointment something like that of captain of the musketeers. ” “ ’ Tis the appointment Monsieur de Tréville held , you ask of me. ” “ The place , madame , is vacant , and although ’ tis a year since Monsieur de Tréville has left it , it has not been filled. ” “ But it is one of the principal military appointments in the king ’ s household. ” “ Monsieur de Tréville was but a younger son of a simple Gascon family , like me , madame ; he occupied that post for twenty years. ” “ You have an answer ready for everything , ” replied the queen , and she took from her bureau a document , which she filled up and signed .
“ Go on , Monsieur Bertuccio , ” said the count .
“ _Ma foi ! _ ” he said , “ I prefer waiting till tomorrow .
When he presented himself at the gate the porter informed him that the Count had gone out about half an hour previously .
Cambalet , his niece ; while others formed parties and plans to annoy the pages and guards of the cardinal duke—all things which appeared to D ’ Artagnan monstrous impossibilities .
“ The queen saving Monsieur de Buckingham , her lover ; nothing more just .
She hastened down and told him what had occurred on the day when the agent of Thomson & French had come to her father ’ s , related the scene on the staircase , repeated the promise she had made , and showed him the letter .
The young man rang the bell violently ; the housemaid who had been in Mademoiselle Valentine ’ s room , and the servant who had replaced Barrois , ran in at the same moment .
the general doubted my fidelity ? ” “ No , but I wish to have a share in my revenge .
That gentleman appears to be well dressed for the first time in his life. ” “ Who are those gentlemen ? ” asked Danglars of Monte Cristo .
“ How ?
All have forgiven me , some have even loved me ; but I think that God has not pardoned me , for the memory of that execution pursues me constantly and every night I see that woman ’ s ghost rising before me. ” “ A woman !
“ Taste some of this ham , D ’ Artagnan ; it is exquisite , ” said Athos , cutting a slice , which he placed on the young man ’ s plate .
“ There is a servant active and vigilant , not like that lazy fellow Bazin , who is no longer good for anything since he became connected with the church .
All the bodily fatigue of the day , all the preoccupation of mind which the events of the evening had brought on , disappeared as they do at the first approach of sleep , when we are still sufficiently conscious to be aware of the coming of slumber .
About two hours afterwards its foundation was reported to be unsafe ; but the report did not prevent the new occupant establishing himself there with his modest furniture the same day at five o ’ clock .
“ Oh , let them come in !
He had about two hundred men in the courtyards and stables , and he placed them at the queen ’ s disposal .
“ I must visit him , ” he said , “ and obtain some pious grant from him. ” “ Oh , you may make sure of him ; his charities alone amount to 20,000 francs a month. ” “ It is magnificent !
“ No , no , madame , ” said Felton , “ only do not sing so loud , particularly at night. ” And at these words Felton , feeling that he could not long maintain his severity toward his prisoner , rushed out of the room .
“ The minister ’ s wife , _pardieu ! _ ” “ Oh , your pardon !
The lady with the black hood followed through all their wanderings the looks of Porthos , and perceived that they rested upon the lady with the velvet cushion , the little Negro , and the maid-servant .
I was just reading the name of the place when the wind blew my letter away , I suppose to the Spaniards ; there ’ s no use in thinking any more about Athos .
“ _Ecco ! _ ” said the guide , and pushing Danglars into the cell , he closed the door upon him .
I had a betrothed , Albert , a lovely girl whom I adored , and I was bringing to my betrothed a hundred and fifty louis , painfully amassed by ceaseless toil .
Chapter 67 .
Chapter LXXXI .
From his windows he saw all the visitors who were caught .
Valentine , tell him if you love Maximilian. ” The count felt his heart dilate and throb ; he opened his arms , and Haydée , uttering a cry , sprang into them .
that would be a far better life than I lead now ; but Monsieur Mazarin is a mean wretch , who won ’ t dispossess himself of his diamond in my favor. ” On entering the Rue Tiquetonne he heard a tremendous noise and found a dense crowd near the house .
As to D ’ Artagnan , he fought purely and simply on the defensive ; and when he saw his adversary pretty well fatigued , with a vigorous side thrust sent his sword flying .
At last d ’ Avrigny slowly uttered these words : “ She is still alive ! ” “ Still ? ” cried Villefort ; “ oh , doctor , what a dreadful word is that. ” “ Yes , ” said the physician , “ I repeat it ; she is still alive , and I am astonished at it. ” “ But is she safe ? ” asked the father .
“ Row ! ” said he to the sailors .
There grief might freely expend itself without being disturbed by the trifling loungers who came from a picnic party to visit Père-Lachaise , or by lovers who make it their rendezvous .
Speak , D ’ Artagnan , speak. ” D ’ Artagnan had been a hundred times in the same room with the queen since he had become lieutenant of the musketeers , but her majesty had never once spoken to him .
Some days before the return of the emperor , Fernand was drafted .
Mine you have heard , and that is to pursue you—on earth to the tribunal of men , in heaven to the tribunal of God. ’ “ ‘ You persist , then ? ’ “ ‘ I swear it before the God who hears me .
“ Ah ! ” continued the count , “ be good enough to ask Pastrini if he has received the _tavoletta_ , and if he can send us an account of the execution. ” “ There is no need to do that , ” said Franz , taking out his tablets ; “ for I saw the account , and copied it down. ” “ Very well , you can retire , M. Bertuccio ; I need you no longer .
“ What did you answer him ? ” “ That the thing was impossible , seeing that you were not at home , as he could see. ” “ Well , what did he say then ? ” “ That you must not fail to call upon him in the course of the day ; and then he added in a low voice , ‘ Tell your master that his Eminence is very well disposed toward him , and that his fortune perhaps depends upon this interview. ’ ” “ The snare is rather _maladroit_ for the cardinal , ” replied the young man , smiling .
“ Count , ” he said , “ I swear to you my soul is no longer my own. ” “ Maximilian , you know I have no relation in the world .
Let us adjure him , in the name of the God before whom he must perhaps appear , to speak the truth .
“ They have closed up the grating with a board. ” “ That is well ; God has made them senseless , ” said Felton .
But all my fortune is in England .
50137m “ But then you are rich , —very rich , indeed , ” continued Debray , taking out some papers from his pocket-book , which he spread upon the table .
A pleasure-boat with striped awning was going by .
The room was neatly , comfortably furnished .
“ We are looking for the house of Monsieur de la Fere , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
It appears the conquerors had something else to do. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , we shall find their muskets , their cartridges , and their flasks ; and instead of four musketoons and twelve balls , we shall have fifteen guns and a hundred charges to fire. ” “ Oh , Athos ! ” said Aramis , “ truly you are a great man. ” Porthos nodded in sign of agreement .
Why , did not the countess , the proud Mercédès , the disdainful Catalane , who will scarcely open her lips to her oldest acquaintances , take your arm , lead you into the garden , into the private walks , and remain there for half an hour ? ” “ Ah , baron , baron , ” said Albert , “ you are not listening—what barbarism in a megalomaniac like you ! ” “ Oh , don ’ t worry about me , Sir Mocker , ” said Danglars ; then turning to Monte Cristo he said : “ But will you undertake to speak to the father ? ” “ Willingly , if you wish it. ” “ But let it be done explicitly and positively .
“ For whom are you looking , my fine fellow ? ” asked the fruiteress on the opposite side .
You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others .
Then he came to the corridor , all the doors of which he found open ; so , too , was the door of Athos ’ s chamber and that of the park .
Grimaud has relieved Mousqueton and has his foot on the cellar door. ” “ Well , don ’ t be inactive. ” “ Inactive , my dear fellow !
“ _Moderato ! _ ” he cried as they descended .
There she made a fresh sign of silence , and opened a second door concealed by tapestry .
“ Your excellency ’ s carriage is at the door , ” said he .
“ Do you know them , Fernand ? ” he said .
His requests were not granted , but he went on asking all the same .
“ Let us horsewhip the fine gentleman ! ” said others .
That reconciliation was nothing but the vengeance of a jealous woman .
“ What she ? ” asked Athos .
At six leagues from Marseilles , after having eaten some of the lozenges he is accustomed to take , he fell into such a deep sleep , that it appeared to me unnatural ; still I hesitated to wake him , although I fancied that his face was flushed , and that the veins of his temples throbbed more violently than usual .
During the evening two men , engaged for the purpose , had carried Noirtier from Valentine ’ s room into his own , and contrary to all expectation there was no difficulty in withdrawing him from his child .
Could you incur my displeasure by having followed the orders of your superiors with more intelligence and courage than another would have done ?
D ’ Artagnan , overcoming his repugnance to Mordaunt , walked with him upon the deck and invented a hundred stories to make him talk .
1.E.8 .
“ The favorite of a great lady will not be allowed to be inconvenienced for such a paltry sum as he owes you. ” “ If I durst say what I believe on that head— ” “ What you believe ? ” “ I ought rather to say , what I know. ” “ What you know ? ” “ And even what I am sure of. ” “ And of what are you so sure ? ” “ I would say that I know this great lady. ” “ You ? ” “ Yes ; I. ” “ And how do you know her ? ” “ Oh , monsieur , if I could believe I might trust in your discretion. ” “ Speak !
I have nothing but memory .
Chapter 114 .
“ In less than one week from this time I will ascertain who this M. de Monte Cristo is , whence he comes , where he goes , and why he speaks in our presence of children that have been disinterred in a garden. ” Villefort pronounced these words with an accent which would have made the count shudder had he heard him .
Porthos and Aramis were so engaged with their game , and Athos was watching them with so much attention , that they did not even perceive their young companion go out , who , as he had told the Guardsman of his Eminence , stopped outside the door .
The boat glided along the ferry rope under the shadow of a pale cloud which hung over the water at that moment .
Everything is in readiness for our flight , and we can select any time we choose .
Personally , I do not know you. ” This calm tone and perfect ease made Andrea feel that he was , for the moment , restrained by a more muscular hand than his own , and that the restraint could not be easily broken through .
“ Have the fugitives been pursued ? ” “ Yes , my officer ; unfortunately , they are well mounted. ” “ How many are there ? ” “ Four , and a fifth whom they carried away wounded. ” “ Four ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , looking at Porthos .
“ ‘ I believe the storm is over , ’ said he .
I have , therefore , received a very good education , and have been treated by these kidnappers very much as the slaves were treated in Asia Minor , whose masters made them grammarians , doctors , and philosophers , in order that they might fetch a higher price in the Roman market. ” Monte Cristo smiled with satisfaction ; it appeared as if he had not expected so much from M. Andrea Cavalcanti .
He must have been dreadfully hurt , for he did not stir from the place where he fell .
Are you not going to keep your promise of introducing me to the fair subject of our remarks ? ” “ Certainly , directly the curtain falls on the stage. ” “ What a confounded long time this first act lasts .
felt instinctively that he ought not to reply to this question , the queen having put it in an almost dying voice .
Do you not know that we Italians have eyes only for the man we love ? ” “ True , ” replied Franz .
As for Porthos , I believe him to be eternal , like God , although less patient .
M. de Boville was in his private room , and the Englishman , on perceiving him , made a gesture of surprise , which seemed to indicate that it was not the first time he had been in his presence .
I remarked that he regretted the horse furniture very much .
Again the abbé had been obliged to swallow a draught of water to calm the emotions that threatened to overpower him .
From the moment he perceived them he did not cease to look at them and seemed to burn with the wish to speak to them .
; I—I detest , I loathe it ! ” “ Very fine , Anne .
“ The idea was not that of a Christian , I knew ; but without doubt , that eternal enemy of our souls , that lion roaring constantly around us , breathed it into my mind .
They both approached the window , and through a slit in the shutter they saw Bonacieux talking with a man in a cloak .
The repast was carried into effect that very day , and the lackey waited at table .
He heard the door of the staircase creak on its hinges—the clock gave its warning to strike eleven—the door of his study opened .
Should anyone else interrogate you , say to him what you have said to me , but do not breathe a word of this letter. ” “ I promise. ” It was Villefort who seemed to entreat , and the prisoner who reassured him .
I not only permit , I desire ; let them come in. ” The marshal introduced the two young men and placed them face to face with the prince .
Monte Cristo returned to his bedroom , and , glancing rapidly from the garden to the street , he saw first Caderousse , who after walking to the end of the garden , fixed his ladder against the wall at a different part from where he came in .
THE ANTECHAMBER OF M. DE TRÉVILLE Chapter III .
The Gascon uttered a furious imprecation , which was answered by a wild laugh on the other side of the iron panel .
This was one of his parts in the popular comedy he was performing , —a make-up he had adopted and which suited him about as well as the masks worn on the classic stage by paternal actors , who seen from one side , were the image of geniality , and from the other showed lips drawn down in chronic ill-temper .
Lift it , and judge if I am mistaken. ” The young man raised the arm , which fell back by its own weight , perfectly inanimate and helpless .
“ No ; for another. ” “ For another ? ” “ Yes. ” “ His name ; his name ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Is that your opinion , D ’ Herblay ? ” “ Yes , ” said Aramis , “ we have promised. ” “ Then , ” continued Athos , “ we have another reason ; it is this—listen : In France at this moment everything is poor and paltry .
“ We dress the king in Groslow ’ s clothes .
Paris is a horrible place in summer .
I arose .
My credit rises by the fall of that of the Comte de Wardes. ” “ And will you go ? ” asked Kitty .
This letter was from my brother .
The monks had no longer an instant of repose .
“ You here at this hour ? ” said she .
I forgot , ” said Athos , laughing .
It is indeed thee ! ” “ Yes , yes , Constance .
although I am very much afraid that your good wishes will not be of great service to me. ” “ Bah ! ” said Athos , “ God is great , as say the followers of Mohammed , and the future is in his hands. ” Then , swallowing the contents of his glass , which he put down close to him , Athos arose carelessly , took the musket next to him , and drew near to one of the loopholes .
What says Augustine on this subject : ‘ _Severus sit clericorum verbo_. ’ ” “ Yes , let the sermon be clear , ” said the curate .
Felton was then mistrusted .
“ Go ! ” said the duke .
No one could suspect that those two hands had been engaged with others in drawing out from the social edifice the keystone of royalty .
The eight oars fell into the sea simultaneously without splashing a drop of water , and the boat , yielding to the impulsion , glided forward .
“ You are a worthy fellow ; and I had already thought of your interests in the event of poor Edmond having become captain of the _Pharaon_. ” “ Is it possible you were so kind ? ” “ Yes , indeed ; I had previously inquired of Dantès what was his opinion of you , and if he should have any reluctance to continue you in your post , for somehow I have perceived a sort of coolness between you. ” “ And what was his reply ? ” “ That he certainly did think he had given you offence in an affair which he merely referred to without entering into particulars , but that whoever possessed the good opinion and confidence of the ship ’ s owners would have his preference also. ” “ The hypocrite ! ” murmured Danglars .
My sister sends you this authorization with great pleasure , for she is very partial to the little girl , to whom she intends to be more serviceable hereafter .
Meddle with your Musketeers , and do not annoy me in this way .
“ Well , yes , madame , ” said the novice , “ Are we rivals ? ” The countenance of Milady was illumined by so savage a joy that under any other circumstances Mme .
Try , Porthos , to please them more than you are wont to do when they are under our windows .
“ Why , it is poor Lubin , the lackey of the Comte de Wardes—he whom you took such good care of a month ago at Calais , on the road to the governor ’ s country house ! ” “ So it is ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I know him now .
At midnight they arrived at the gate of a beautiful park .
No , certainly not , and from this moment I will endeavor to model myself after him .
And be assured that you shall be accompanied by one who will blow your brains out at the first attempt you make to return to England or the Continent. ” Milady listened with an attention that dilated her inflamed eyes .
These two words greatly amused the men to whom they were addressed .
“ But Monte Cristo is not the only one I miss here ; I do not see Morrel. ” “ Morrel ?
At last Raoul succeeded in drawing his foot from the stirrup and his leg from under the animal , and in a second he was on his feet again .
The door is opened to all who knock .
“ Take care , madame , ” said the young man , coolly , “ you will kill yourself in jumping. ” Milady reseated herself , foaming .
eh ?
Danglars acquitted himself like a man placed between two dangerous positions , and who is rendered brave by fear .
I gave my sister , who constantly defended the unfortunate boy , good advice , and as she confessed that she had several times missed money to a considerable amount , I showed her a safe place in which to conceal our little treasure for the future .
He is a perfect nobleman , very polite , modest , and agreeable , such as may be found constantly in Italy , descendants of very ancient families .
The inn was full of disreputable looking people , who seemed as if they were on the point of commencing some nightly expedition .
But he has wealth , I believe , already. ” “ Doubtless he has .
Dantès , you must tell my uncle that the emperor remembered him , and you will see it will bring tears into the old soldier ’ s eyes .
If it be to avenge her , I am ready to follow you. ” Athos profited by this moment of strength which the hope of vengeance restored to his unfortunate friend to make a sign to Porthos and Aramis to go and fetch the superior .
It had not been used .
I supported myself by a chair , feeling that I was about to fall , but this support was soon insufficient on account of my weak arms .
Of whom do you speak ?
“ One by the post , Madame Danglars ’ footman left the other. ” “ Let Madame Danglars know that I accept the place she offers me in her box .
The other day a banker ’ s clerk brought him fifty thousand francs in a portfolio about the size of your plate ; yesterday his banker brought him a hundred thousand francs in gold. ” Caderousse was filled with wonder ; the young man ’ s words sounded to him like metal , and he thought he could hear the rushing of cascades of louis .
The English , Turkish , Japanese , Hindu laws , are as familiar to me as the French laws , and thus I was right , when I said to you , that relatively ( you know that everything is relative , sir ) —that relatively to what I have done , you have very little to do ; but that relatively to all I have learned , you have yet a great deal to learn. ” “ But with what motive have you learned all this ? ” inquired Villefort , in astonishment .
I fell upon one knee , then upon both .
“ Well , and what then ? ” said Fernand , lifting up his head , and looking at Caderousse like a man who looks for someone on whom to vent his anger ; “ Mercédès is not accountable to any person , is she ?
Coquenard .
And why so ? ” asked Porthos , warmly .
If I am an officer , your fortune is certain , for I shall have money enough for both , and , moreover , a name we shall both be proud of , since it will be our own .
“ Then you will lie here , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Poor fellow , poor fellow ! ” murmured Caderousse .
You are Fernand Mondego , the French officer who led the troops of my noble father !
The smugglers left with Edmond what he had requested and set sail , but not without turning about several times , and each time making signs of a cordial farewell , to which Edmond replied with his hand only , as if he could not move the rest of his body .
The two men were left alone .
“ Yes , for an instant I hoped it was so .
The most important thing was , not to kill him only—for I had an opportunity of doing so a hundred times—but to kill him without being discovered—at least , without being arrested .
He was a man of forty to forty-five years , but he seemed at least fifty , and his black moustache and eyebrows contrasted strangely with his almost white hair , which was cut short , in the military fashion .
yes !
Villefort stood watching , breathless , until his father had disappeared at the Rue Bussy .
“ What were you doing on that armchair ? ” asked he .
I am a brute .
He who fires the first shot rarely hits his man , for he fires with the apprehension of being disarmed , before an armed foe ; then , whilst he fires , make your horse rear ; that manoeuvre has saved my life several times. ” “ I shall do so , if only in gratitude—— ” “ Eh ! ” cried Athos , “ are not those fellows poachers they have arrested yonder ?
Jacopo , seeing him fall , had believed him killed , and rushing towards him raised him up , and then attended to him with all the kindness of a devoted comrade .
Powerful memories were stirred within them by the sight of the round tower , Fort Saint-Nicolas , the City Hall designed by Puget,28 the port with its brick quays , where they had both played in childhood , and it was with one accord that they stopped on the Canebière .
Then D ’ Artagnan , being alone , struck a light and lighted a small bit of tinder , mounted his horse and stopped at the door in the midst of the soldiers .
“ Here comes M. Morrel back .
If you were to die , I should die too. ” The count , with a smile of profound tenderness , extended his hand , and she carried it to her lips .
“ Well , sir , though honor is a fine thing , they are tired of fighting for it , and to-night they have sold you for two hundred thousand pounds—that is to say , for half what is owing them. ” “ Impossible ! ” cried the king , “ the Scotch sell their king for two hundred thousand pounds !
I left with mingled feelings of sorrow and delight .
They fear the ear that hears their orders , and the eye that scrutinizes their actions .
This announcement was received in silence .
“ A nice acquaintance , my friend ! ” “ Porthos , ” replied Aramis , “ I have had the occasion to observe to you more than once that you are very indiscreet ; and that is injurious to you among the women. ” “ Gentlemen , gentlemen , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , who began to get a glimpse of the result of the adventure , “ the thing is serious .
“ Monsieur de Longueville is of royal blood , madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
About a hundred paces from the Palais Royal a patrol stopped the carriage .
“ Am I to say what you told me ? ” asked Valentine .
Just as they were beginning , in the English fashion , to leave the spoons in their cups , the door again opened and Danglars entered , visibly agitated .
How is your husband , our dear Monsieur Coquenard ?
The guide held the door open .
Ah !
20057m Maximilian smiled .
“ ‘ Sdeath ! ” he cried , with his Gascon accent .
“ Ah , Monsieur Hypocrite , I understand how you study theology. ” The three blows were scarcely struck , when the inside blind was opened and a light appeared through the panes of the outside shutter .
We have met him twice at General Cromwell ’ s .
I was wrong then , no , I said what you say—there is a crisis at hand .
“ Madame de Saint-Méran , whom I once saw , was short , of slender form , and of a much more nervous than sanguine temperament ; grief could hardly produce apoplexy in such a constitution as that of Madame de Saint-Méran. ” “ At any rate , ” said Albert , “ whatever disease or doctor may have killed her , M. de Villefort , or rather , Mademoiselle Valentine , —or , still rather , our friend Franz , inherits a magnificent fortune , amounting , I believe , to 80,000 livres per annum. ” “ And this fortune will be doubled at the death of the old Jacobin , Noirtier. ” “ That is a tenacious old grandfather , ” said Beauchamp .
A horse is mortal ; suppose mine had had the glanders or the farcy ? ” D ’ Artagnan did not smile .
so much the better .
“ Edward , ” said Villefort , fixing an imperious glance on the child , “ go and play in the drawing-room , my dear ; I wish to speak to your mamma. ” Madame de Villefort shuddered at the sight of that cold countenance , that resolute tone , and the awfully strange preliminaries .
Franz questioned Albert as to his intentions ; but Albert had great projects to put into execution before going to the theatre ; and instead of making any answer , he inquired if Signor Pastrini could procure him a tailor .
“ I hoped that the active and laborious life of a smuggler , with the severe discipline on board , would have a salutary effect on his character , which was now well-nigh , if not quite , corrupt .
“ That is our brave Musketeer , I think , ” said the cardinal .
Madame Morrel sat down by her husband and took one of his hands in hers , Julie still lay with her head on his shoulder , Emmanuel stood in the centre of the chamber and seemed to form the link between Morrel ’ s family and the sailors at the door .
The devil take the constitutional government , and since we had our choice , as they say , at least , how could we choose that ? ” “ I understand ; you must lay in a stock of hilarity. ” “ Do not run down M. Danglars ’ speeches , ” said Debray ; “ he votes for you , for he belongs to the opposition. ” “ _Pardieu_ , that is exactly the worst of all .
A blasphemy .
They were innumerable .
Review your life , Albert ; although it is only just beginning , did a lovely summer ’ s day ever dawn with greater purity than has marked the commencement of your career ?
In the course of the forenoon Monsieur de Beaufort had a game of tennis with La Ramee ; a sign from Grimaud put him on the alert .
“ Mr .
The latter watched with strange and deep interest the young girl , absorbed by her affection , and he also , like Morrel , followed those traces of inward suffering which was so little perceptible to a common observer that they escaped the notice of everyone but the grandfather and the lover .
As for Athos , they believed him to be dead , and left him very quiet on the field of battle , not thinking it worth the trouble to carry him away .
Noirtier let his head fall upon his chest , apparently overwhelmed and thoughtful ; then he closed one eye , in token of inquiry .
ask my beloved sister Haydée , who ever since our departure from France , has caused me to wait patiently for this happy day , while talking to me of you. ” “ You then love Haydée ? ” asked Monte Cristo with an emotion he in vain endeavored to dissimulate .
Are you coming , Morrel ? ” “ Directly I have given my card to the count , who has promised to pay us a visit at Rue Meslay , No .
“ Aramis , ” cried Athos , “ I am arrested. ” “ Good , ” replied Aramis , calmly .
The lackey bowed and let them pass .
“ Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ if you can still speak , say a word , my dear Porthos , to this good Planchet. ” “ Planchet , my friend , ” said Porthos , in a melancholy voice , “ I am very ill ; should you meet a doctor you will do me a favor by sending him to me. ” “ Oh !
Be satisfied , all who are named in that letter shall be punished as they deserve , even the queen herself. ” “ What do you say , sire ?
“ This evening , sir , ” he replied , “ all will be ready. ” Chapter XLVI .
But the king soon again became dull and indisposed ; his brow was not one of those that long remain clear .
Whither does your excellency desire to be driven ? ” “ To the residence of Baron Danglars , Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin. ” This conversation had passed as they stood upon the terrace , from which a flight of stone steps led to the carriage-drive .
The passengers and their relations crowded on the deck , friends taking a tender but sorrowful leave of each other , some weeping , others noisy in their grief , the whole forming a spectacle that might be exciting even to those who witnessed similar sights daily , but which had no power to disturb the current of thought that had taken possession of the mind of Maximilian from the moment he had set foot on the broad pavement of the quay .
As D ’ Artagnan took some precautions to conceal himself , Porthos believed he had not been seen .
These are our arms , that is , those of my father , but they are , as you see , joined to another shield , which has gules , a silver tower , which are my mother ’ s .
It had been supposed some of the papers might be in the Arabian , Romaic , or Turkish language , and the interpreter of the House was in attendance .
“ Oh , do not kill me ! ” cried the bandit .
It was the Count de Rochefort .
The bell of Monte Citorio , which only sounds on the pope ’ s decease and the opening of the Carnival , was ringing a joyous peal .
“ Monsieur is about to ask for some men of good will for a dangerous mission , but one which will do honor to those who shall accomplish it ; and I made you a sign in order that you might hold yourself in readiness. ” “ Thanks , my captain ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , who wished for nothing better than an opportunity to distinguish himself under the eye of the lieutenant general .
He then arose .
It was , alas !
Albert looked around him .
“ Drive to the palace , ” said Comminges to the coachman , who was by then more dead than alive .
“ I must leave you , ” said Du Tremblay ; “ I am sent for to sign the release of a prisoner .
THE RETURN D ’ Artagnan was astounded by the terrible confidence of Athos ; yet many things appeared very obscure to him in this half revelation .
If you do , I swear to you , for I have got to the end of my strength , that I will dash my brains out against the wall , and you will have my death to reproach yourself with. ” “ How old are you ?
M. de Monte Cristo yields his right of using his. ” “ We had anticipated this kindness on the part of the count , ” said Beauchamp , “ and I have brought some weapons which I bought eight or ten days since , thinking to want them on a similar occasion .
With his instinctive delicacy Edmond had preferred avoiding any touch on this painful chord , and Faria had been equally silent .
“ Do you not recognize me , unhappy child ? ” “ Silence , —be silent ! ” said Andrea , who knew the delicate sense of hearing possessed by the walls ; “ for Heaven ’ s sake , do not speak so loud ! ” “ You wish to speak with me alone , do you not ? ” said Bertuccio .
45 .
Everything was in order , —laces , dresses , jewels , linen , money , all were arranged in the drawers , and the countess was carefully collecting the keys .
“ She is gone , ” said he ; “ she must have returned to the Louvre. ” “ You are sure , ” replied the stranger , “ that she did not suspect the intentions with which you went out ? ” “ No , ” replied Bonacieux , with a self-sufficient air , “ she is too superficial a woman. ” “ Is the young Guardsman at home ? ” “ I do not think he is ; as you see , his shutter is closed , and you can see no light shine through the chinks of the shutters. ” “ All the same , it is well to be certain. ” “ How so ? ” “ By knocking at his door .
She undertook his seduction , and succeeded ; she would have seduced a saint .
The count turned round as he heard the entrance of Danglars into the room .
D ’ Artagnan sprang up with a bound , and at the same instant the ball from the other musket tore up the gravel on the very spot on the road where he had thrown himself with his face to the ground .
thus it is called by those who have wished for this demonstration and who are , perhaps , the cause of it ; but , wait , wait !
“ If , perchance , M. de Morcerf came , he would find M. Cavalcanti in that room , where he , the betrothed of Eugénie , has never been admitted. ” “ You may well say , perchance , ” replied the banker ; “ for he comes so seldom , it would seem only chance that brings him. ” “ But should he come and find that young man with your daughter , he might be displeased. ” “ He ?
And I , who have sworn to take him dead or alive , I am dishonored—and by you ! ” “ Kill me ! ” replied Athos , uncovering his breast , “ if your honor requires my death. ” “ Oh !
As fast as they entered , they were placed in the grand saloon , on the platforms prepared for them .
Bonacieux , in a voice almost caressing , and pressing the hand of D ’ Artagnan , who had not relinquished hers , “ well : I will not say as much as you do ; what is lost for today may not be lost forever .
“ Well , let my God save me , or let me perish for my God !
“ And , my faith , the governor of the province—one of the gentlemen I expected today—seemed to have such a wish for him , that I gave him to him. ” “ Gave him ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The other members silently dispersed .
I entreat you to write to me , for you form a part of my existence , and , if I may venture to tell you so , I also feel anxious .
For an apprentice Musketeer the young woman was almost an ideal of love .
“ Bigamy , my dear !
“ I expected him this morning. ” “ He desired me to tell your Grace , ” replied Felton , “ that he very much regretted not having that honor , but that he was prevented by the guard he is obliged to keep at the castle. ” “ Yes , I know that , ” said Buckingham ; “ he has a prisoner. ” “ It is of that prisoner that I wish to speak to your Grace , ” replied Felton .
“ Qui vive ? ” he asked .
“ Faith !
Life is the greatest treasure , and speaking candidly , ours hangs by a thread. ” “ What do you say to this , Du Vallon ? ” “ I , ” said Porthos , “ I am entirely of D ’ Artagnan ’ s opinion ; this is a ‘ beastly ’ country , this England. ” “ You are quite decided , then , to leave it ? ” asked Athos of D ’ Artagnan .
Villefort had only just given utterance to a few incoherent sentences , and then retired to his study , where he received about two hours afterwards the following letter : “ After all the disclosures which were made this morning , M. Noirtier de Villefort must see the utter impossibility of any alliance being formed between his family and that of M. Franz d ’ Épinay .
Ali suddenly cast aside his chibouque , drew the lasso from his pocket , threw it so skilfully as to catch the forelegs of the near horse in its triple fold , and suffered himself to be dragged on for a few steps by the violence of the shock , then the animal fell over on the pole , which snapped , and therefore prevented the other horse from pursuing its way .
At three paces from her , seated in a chair which he balanced on two legs , leaning his elbow on an old worm-eaten table , was a tall young man of twenty , or two-and-twenty , who was looking at her with an air in which vexation and uneasiness were mingled .
“ As to you , comrades , ” they said to the men , “ nothing will happen to you if you are discreet ; but if you stir you are dead men. ” The soldiers were complaisant ; they had found the grasp of Porthos pretty powerful and that it was no joke to fight against it .
On the Eve of Battle .
“ Ah , ” said the doctor , “ is it you ? ” “ Yes , ” said Villefort , closing the door after him , “ it is I , who am come in my turn to ask you if we are quite alone .
Lovely as the Greek girls of Cyprus or Chios , Mercédès boasted the same bright flashing eyes of jet , and ripe , round , coral lips .
All these hopes were so many sweet thoughts for Milady ; so , rocked by them , she soon fell asleep .
Nevertheless , time passed on , and the Rochellais did not surrender .
“ I think he is about to leave Paris ; he was going to his banker. ” “ His banker ?
“ Ma-madame ! ” cried he ; “ is that you ?
Let those who have ears hear and those who have eyes see ; I can tell you nothing more at present. ” “ Go ahead , my friend , ” said Athos ; “ I am sure that whatever you do is well done. ” “ And you , Aramis , are you of that opinion ? ” “ Entirely so , my dear D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Very good , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ here indeed are true believers ; it is a pleasure to work miracles before them ; they are not like that unbelieving Porthos , who must see and touch before he will believe. ” “ The fact is , ” said Porthos , with an air of finesse , “ I am rather incredulous. ” D ’ Artagnan gave him playful buffet on the shoulder , and as they had reached the station where they were to breakfast , the conversation ended there .
“ The whole. ” “ But how , my God ? ” “ By a mode of proceeding known to myself , and by which I likewise overheard the more animated conversation which he had with the cardinal ’ s police. ” “ And what did you understand by what we said ? ” “ A thousand things .
We shall arrive at eight o ’ clock .
At the sight of D ’ Artagnan , who entered the courtyard on horseback , Bernouin rubbed his eyes and thought he must be mistaken .
“ I am frightful tonight , ” she said .
Yet these two noble and intelligent creatures , united by the indissoluble ties of maternal and filial love , had succeeded in tacitly understanding one another , and economizing their stores , and Albert had been able to tell his mother without extorting a change of countenance : “ Mother , we have no more money. ” 50141m Mercédès had never known misery ; she had often , in her youth , spoken of poverty , but between want and necessity , those synonymous words , there is a wide difference .
I am half an hour in advance of them , an hour , perhaps .
Suddenly a dull and heavy noise was heard .
Athos , after making sure that Lord Winter was really dead , let fall the corpse and said : “ Come , Aramis , now for the honor of France ! ” and the two Englishmen who were nearest to them fell , mortally wounded .
Noirtier , the redoubtable , was the next morning _poor M. Noirtier_ , the helpless old man , at the tender mercies of the weakest creature in the household , that is , his grandchild , Valentine ; a dumb and frozen carcass , in fact , living painlessly on , that time may be given for his frame to decompose without his consciousness of its decay. ” “ Alas , sir , ” said Monte Cristo “ this spectacle is neither strange to my eye nor my thought .
My death will be much more eloquent than my life , and the silence of the corpse will convince you much better than the words of the prisoner. ” “ Be silent , madame , ” cried Felton , “ and do not speak to me thus ; I came to entreat you to promise me upon your honor , to swear to me by what you hold most sacred , that you will make no attempt upon your life. ” “ I will not promise , ” said Milady , “ for no one has more respect for a promise or an oath than I have ; and if I make a promise I must keep it. ” “ Well , ” said Felton , “ only promise till you have seen me again .
Everyone obeyed .
A servant entered , summoned by Albert ’ s ring of the bell .
He was an old friend of mine and if he had not so bad a memory he ought to invite me to your wedding , seeing he came to mine .
You see me devoted to you , body and soul , my life and each warm drop that circles round my heart are consecrated to your service ; you know full well that my existence is bound up in yours—that were I to lose you I would not outlive the hour of such crushing misery ; yet you speak with calmness of the prospect of your being the wife of another !
In what am I benefited by accompanying my son so far , since I now abandon him , and allow him to depart alone to the baneful climate of Africa ?
0065m As Danglars approached the disappointed lover , he cast on him a look of deep meaning , while Fernand , as he slowly paced behind the happy pair , who seemed , in their own unmixed content , to have entirely forgotten that such a being as himself existed , was pale and abstracted ; occasionally , however , a deep flush would overspread his countenance , and a nervous contraction distort his features , while , with an agitated and restless gaze , he would glance in the direction of Marseilles , like one who either anticipated or foresaw some great and important event .
Five minutes afterwards the doors of the drawing-room were thrown open , and Bertuccio appearing said , with a violent effort , “ The dinner waits. ” The Count of Monte Cristo offered his arm to Madame de Villefort .
‘ My dear Dantès , ’ said he , ‘ swear to perform what I am going to tell you , for it is a matter of the deepest importance. ’ “ ‘ I swear , captain , ’ replied I .
Halloo !
And when Jacopo inquired of him , “ What is the use of teaching all these things to a poor sailor like me ? ” Edmond replied , “ Who knows ?
private secretary to a minister , plunged at once into European cabals and Parisian intrigues ; having kings , and , better still , queens , to protect , parties to unite , elections to direct ; making more use of your cabinet with your pen and your telegraph than Napoleon did of his battle-fields with his sword and his victories ; possessing five-and-twenty thousand francs a year , besides your place ; a horse , for which Château-Renaud offered you four hundred louis , and which you would not part with ; a tailor who never disappoints you ; with the opera , the jockey-club , and other diversions , can you not amuse yourself ?
I ? ” said Milady , with a smile which might have disarmed the angel of the last judgment .
I recollect coming for my mother to look at it when M. de Saint-Méran advertised it for sale two or three years ago. ” “ M .
What is it , then ? ” Mazarin sank into a chair with the deepest melancholy painted on his countenance .
“ Now go down , ” said the abbé , folding his arms .
He left Gorgone on his right and La Pianosa on his left , and went towards the country of Paoli and Napoleon .
Eugénie Danglars ; I can not in conscience , therefore , let you run down the speeches of a man who will one day say to me , ‘ Vicomte , you know I give my daughter two millions. ’ ” “ Ah , this marriage will never take place , ” said Beauchamp .
But it was not upon Corsica , the very houses of which he could distinguish ; or on Sardinia ; or on the Island of Elba , with its historical associations ; or upon the almost imperceptible line that to the experienced eye of a sailor alone revealed the coast of Genoa the proud , and Leghorn the commercial , that he gazed .
One morning he took this man on one side and had succeeded in speaking to him , when Grimaud entered and seeing what was going on approached the duke respectfully , but took the guard by the arm .
“ But the paper nowhere identifies this Fernand with your father. ” 40100m “ No ; but the connection will be seen by others , and therefore I will have the article contradicted. ” At the words _I will_ , Beauchamp steadily raised his eyes to Albert ’ s countenance , and then as gradually lowering them , he remained thoughtful for a few moments .
This manœuvre was incomprehensible to Dantès .
No light appeared through the chinks of the shutters ; no noise gave reason to believe that it was inhabited .
“ _Diable ! _ ” said Morcerf .
“ To London ! ” cried Porthos ; “ and what the devil are we going to do in London ? ” “ That is what I am not at liberty to tell you , gentlemen ; you must trust to me. ” “ But in order to go to London , ” added Porthos , “ money is needed , and I have none. ” “ Nor I , ” said Aramis .
there was no great cunning necessary .
Madame de Villefort has nothing of her own , and hates me for being so richly endowed .
The officers who arrested him conducted him straight to the Bastille , where he passed trembling before a party of soldiers who were loading their muskets .
The Comte de Toiras retired into the citadel St. Martin with his garrison , and threw a hundred men into a little fort called the fort of La Prée .
Monsieur de Mazarin is not a man of genius , as I thought , he is a man of no origin—once a servant of Cardinal Bentivoglio , and he got on by intrigue .
Besides , in addition to the pioneers , there are four soldiers and a brigadier , armed with muskets. ” “ That ’ s because they don ’ t see us , ” said Athos .
Pass on your way , then ; it is the best thing to do. ” This raillery exasperated Jussac .
As soon as I learned I could in any way assist you , I most eagerly seized the opportunity of offering my services. ” The two young men bowed .
“ Assuredly , ” said d ’ Avrigny .
Five minutes afterwards the piano resounded to the touch of Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly ’ s fingers , and Mademoiselle Danglars was singing Brabantio ’ s malediction on Desdemona .
When he compared the public crimes of this minister—startling crimes , European crimes , if so we may say—with the private and unknown crimes with which Milady had charged him , Felton found that the more culpable of the two men which formed the character of Buckingham was the one of whom the public knew not the life .
Since Mazarin has sent for you , it is because he wants you .
Bernouin was waiting there , impatient for news of his master .
He drank to their good health , and the travelers returned his politeness .
Come , we have not any time to lose , it is half-past twelve—let us set off. ” All three descended ; the coachman received his master ’ s orders , and drove down the Via del Babuino .
The rest of the furniture of this privileged apartment consisted of old cabinets , filled with Chinese porcelain and Japanese vases , Lucca della Robbia _faïences_ , and Palissy platters ; of old armchairs , in which perhaps had sat Henry IV .
I think that a man must be so severely punished by the loss of your love that he stands in need of no other chastisement. ” “ Who told you that I loved him ? ” asked Milady , sharply .
She was a tall woman , with a slender figure and a forest of golden curls , such as Raphael was fond of and Titian has painted all his Magdalens with .
Napoleon , in the Island of Elba , is too near France , and his proximity keeps up the hopes of his partisans .
“ Yes , horse .
But man—man , whom God created in his own image—man , upon whom God has laid his first , his sole commandment , to love his neighbor—man , to whom God has given a voice to express his thoughts—what is his first cry when he hears his fellow-man is saved ?
Order was re-established in the hall , except that a few people still moved about and whispered to one another .
In a quarter of an hour Athos joined them and at the same moment Charles brought in a letter for D ’ Artagnan , which a messenger had just desired might be instantly delivered .
It was , in fact , Mordaunt whom D ’ Artagnan had followed , without knowing it .
“ I take them , then , ” said the lieutenant .
But , towards the evening after the hour for the customary visit had gone by , Faria , not seeing the young man appear , tried to move and get over the distance which separated them .
Tell me , the first time you tasted oysters , tea , porter , truffles , and sundry other dainties which you now adore , did you like them ?
But where the devil were you gadding last night , my young master ?
“ Pardon me , ” said he , “ my dear baron , but one of my friends , the Abbé Busoni , whom you perhaps saw pass by , has just arrived in Paris ; not having seen him for a long time , I could not make up my mind to leave him sooner , so I hope this will be sufficient reason for my having made you wait. ” “ Nay , ” said Danglars , “ it is my fault ; I have chosen my visit at a wrong time , and will retire. ” “ Not at all ; on the contrary , be seated ; but what is the matter with you ?
“ But , ” suggested D ’ Artagnan , “ have we not our friend Mousqueton , who managed for us so well at Chantilly , Porthos ? ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ we have Mousqueton , but since he has been steward , he has become very heavy ; never mind , let us call him , and to make sure that he will reply agreeably—— “ Here !
As soon as the siege is over , we ’ ll carry her off from that convent. ” “ But we must first learn what convent she is in. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said Porthos .
He has killed the executioner of Bethune in an access of passion , but now his fury is assuaged. ” De Winter smiled sorrowfully and shook his head .
And so—being , beautiful , witty , somewhat talented , as the comic operas say , and rich—and that is happiness , sir—why do you call me unhappy ? ” Danglars , seeing his daughter smiling , and proud even to insolence , could not entirely repress his brutal feelings , but they betrayed themselves only by an exclamation .
Peppino picked up the louis , and Danglars again prepared to carve the fowl .
Coquenard repaired trembling to the cloister of St. Magloire , for she guessed the reproaches that awaited her there ; but she was fascinated by the lofty airs of Porthos .
Milady had listened to all this menacing tirade with a smile of disdain on her lips , but rage in her heart .
International donations are gratefully accepted , but we can not make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States .
Athos had followed him with a glance in which the deepest melancholy and pity were expressed .
That ’ s a match you are playing with his Eminence ; this letter is your game .
Nevertheless , to D ’ Artagnan ’ s great astonishment , the pretty Kitty defended herself resolutely .
“ Sir , ” cried she , “ be kind , be clement , listen to my prayer !
I am entirely at your service , except only for my orders. ” “ Thank you , sir ; what I am about to ask will not compromise you in any degree. ” “ If it should even compromise me a little , ” said Monsieur de Comminges , with a smile , “ still make your demand .
One doesn ’ t hit the bull ’ s-eye every time ; it is something to hit inside the ring .
Come , take the lantern , and let us visit the garden ; you are not afraid of ghosts with me , I hope ? ” Bertuccio raised the lantern , and obeyed .
These recollections were dwelt upon with some pleasure by Danglars , and restored him to some degree of tranquillity .
And desirous of putting an end to the interview , he pushed by her , and closed the door , as if to exclude the pain he felt .
Monsieur de Beaufort sent his cavalry , toward Etampes and Monsieur de Chanleu , who defended the place , was ready to resist an assault , or if the enemy were repulsed , to attempt a sortie .
“ No ; still there , but I only speak of him in order that I may introduce the name of another man .
Has Changarnier been killed ?
Our recruits from Béarn are not generally very rich , and I have no reason to think matters have much changed in this respect since I left the province .
Charles , who is my prisoner , may still have friends , but I have none ! ” And with a deep sigh he again sank into the reverie that had been interrupted by Mordaunt .
He sat up in bed and a cold sweat broke out upon his brow .
Alas !
what , then , is to become of royalty ? ” The queen unconsciously touched here upon the exciting question .
Special rules , set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license , apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™ concept and trademark .
The expulsion took place and I pocketed 600,000 francs the day Charles V. repassed the Bidassoa .
And you , Porthos , do you only wear such a fine golden baldric to suspend a sword of straw from it ?
Ah , that ’ s true ! ” said Athos .
Several strokes resounded on the door ; this time Milady really pushed him away from her .
I was conducting some friends , Musketeers , one of whom , by the by , had a dispute with a stranger—a man who sought a quarrel with him , for I don ’ t know what. ” “ Exactly so , ” said the host ; “ I remember it perfectly .
“ Yes , yes , ” he murmured , “ I am in the hands of the brigands of whom Albert de Morcerf spoke. ” His first idea was to breathe , that he might know whether he was wounded .
He was ushered into a simple and elegant drawing-room , and the count rose to meet him with a smiling air .
He was a nobleman , a man equal to Buckingham in every respect .
Both , however , cast an inquisitive glance into the tankard—it was full of gunpowder .
He thought of that young and pretty Mme .
Madame de Morcerf had lived there since leaving her house ; the continual silence of the spot oppressed her ; still , seeing that Albert continually watched her countenance to judge the state of her feelings , she constrained herself to assume a monotonous smile of the lips alone , which , contrasted with the sweet and beaming expression that usually shone from her eyes , seemed like “ moonlight on a statue , ” —yielding light without warmth .
“ I called you because you were running like a madman , and I was afraid you would throw yourself into the sea , ” said Caderousse , laughing .
“ On the contrary , ” replied the count , “ did you not hear her declare that we were friends ? ” They re-entered the drawing-room , which Valentine and Madame de Villefort had just quitted .
“ Halloo ! ” cried Jussac , advancing toward them and making a sign to his men to do so likewise , “ halloo , Musketeers ?
The priest heard a burst of laughter and then the master , or rather , the mistress , replied : ‘ Thank you , monsieur le curé , I accept. ’ ‘ Sup , then , and make as little noise as possible , ’ said the priest , ‘ for I , too , have been on the go all day and shall not be sorry to sleep to-night. ’ ” Madame de Chevreuse evidently went from surprise to astonishment , and from astonishment to stupefaction .
I had but one thought and that was that he was observing me .
Porthos pretended that this occupation was proof of a reflective and contemplative organization , and he had brought him away without any other recommendation .
The queen , as he went on , looked at him with increasing astonishment .
The next day , M. Dessessart ’ s valet came to D ’ Artagnan ’ s lodging , and gave him a bag containing seven thousand livres .
On reaching the palace , D ’ Artagnan sent to his eminence the letter in which he had been ordered to return without delay .
“ Alas , ” said Valentine , restraining her tears , “ my grandfather is dead. ” “ M .
ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ there are two of them , then ! ” “ I wish there were four , ” said Athos ; “ the two parties would then be equal. ” “ Perhaps there are four , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
At the fifth or sixth blow the pickaxe struck against an iron substance .
Are you mad , Emmanuel ?
You said , ‘ only imagine , ’ —and then paused .
D ’ Artagnan shrugged his shoulders , made a sign to his escort and started .
“ Ah !
On his part , the cardinal was not behind the king in this respect .
Holland loved her , and she responded to his love. ” “ Madame de Chevreuse was not queen , ” murmured Anne of Austria , overcome , in spite of herself , by the expression of so profound a passion .
D ’ Artagnan suggested that he should send word to his wife , so that she might not be anxious about him , but Planchet replied with much sagacity that he was very sure his wife would not die of anxiety through not knowing where he was , while he , Planchet , remembering her incontinence of tongue , would die of anxiety if she did know .
I swear before God , who seeth us , and who , in the darkness of this night heareth us , never shall my sword cross yours , never my eye express a glance of anger , nor my heart a throb of hatred , at you .
Friquet , seeing this fine officer thus walk away , followed by two guards , amused himself by pursuing them and did this so much the more gladly as the ceremony ended at that instant and the king remounted his carriage .
I should myself have recommended the match , had not the noble marquis anticipated my wishes by requesting my consent to it. ’ ” “ Is it possible the king could have condescended so far as to express himself so favorably of me ? ” asked the enraptured Villefort .
Little by little the shadow rose higher and seemed to drive before it the last rays of the expiring day ; at last the reflection rested on the summit of the mountain , where it paused an instant , like the fiery crest of a volcano , then gloom gradually covered the summit as it had covered the base , and the island now only appeared to be a gray mountain that grew continually darker ; half an hour after , the night was quite dark .
What could put such an idea into your head ? ” “ Yourself. ” “ Ah ? —what next ? ” “ Most assuredly. ” “ I should like to know upon what occasion ? ” “ Oh , _mon Dieu ! _ that is very easily done .
The plan of changing their clothes was unanimously adopted .
“ As for me , ” replied Athos to this recital , “ I am quite at my ease ; it will not be women that will defray the expense of my outfit. ” “ Handsome , well-bred , noble lord as you are , my dear Athos , neither princesses nor queens would be secure from your amorous solicitations. ” “ How young this D ’ Artagnan is ! ” said Athos , shrugging his shoulders ; and he made a sign to Grimaud to bring another bottle .
“ Were I in her majesty ’ s place , ” said Gondy , coldly , “ I should not hesitate ; I should release Broussel. ” “ And if I do not give him up , what think you will be the result ? ” exclaimed the queen .
but if I mistake not , ” continued he , “ here he is ; you won ’ t forget the boy , sir. ” Raoul put his hand in his pocket .
“ My head feels actually cold , ” said Porthos .
The duke counted two stories .
“ You have been to Yanina ? ” said he .
Two soldiers were accordingly sent for , and the inspector descended a stairway , so foul , so humid , so dark , as to be loathsome to sight , smell , and respiration .
At the first words of the song the men seated round the fire arose and approached the landing-place , their eyes fixed on the boat , evidently seeking to know who the new-comers were and what were their intentions .
Danglars listened with the most profound attention ; he had expected this declaration for the last two or three days , and when at last it came his eyes glistened as much as they had lowered on listening to Morcerf .
At the end of half an hour or thereabouts , a clerk came to put an end to his tortures , but not to his anxiety , by giving the order to conduct M. Bonacieux to the Chamber of Examination .
The blood rose to her head , and her little foot worked with impatience beneath her robe .
They were obliged to stuff at least twenty pounds weight of shot in the small rider ’ s pockets , to make him weight ; but with all that he outstripped Ariel and Barbare , against whom he ran , by at least three whole lengths. ” “ And was it not found out at last to whom the horse and jockey belonged ? ” “ No. ” “ You say that the horse was entered under the name of Vampa ? ” “ Exactly ; that was the title. ” “ Then , ” answered Albert , “ I am better informed than you are , and know who the owner of that horse was. ” “ Shut up , there ! ” cried the pit in chorus .
“ I was chosen .
At the sound of the gold Aramis raised his eyes and Porthos started .
Keep your ill-humor at home in your money boxes , or , since you have clerks whom you pay , vent it upon them. ” “ Not so , ” replied Danglars ; “ your advice is wrong , so I shall not follow it .
Captivity has brought my mental faculties to a focus ; and you are well aware that from the collision of clouds electricity is produced—from electricity , lightning , from lightning , illumination. ” “ No , ” replied Dantès .
Un vent de fronde S ’ est leve ce matin. ” “ It doesn ’ t surprise me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , in a low tone to Porthos , “ that Mazarin would have been much better satisfied had I crushed the life out of his councillor. ” “ You understand , then , monsieur , ” resumed Planchet , “ that if it were for some enterprise like that undertaken against Monsieur Broussel that you should ask me to take my carbine—— ” “ No , don ’ t be alarmed ; but where did you get all these details ? ” “ From a good source , sir ; I heard it from Friquet. ” “ From Friquet ?
I have weighed all the chances , calculated the time required for all the forms ; something must have happened. ” And then he walked rapidly to and fro , and pressed his burning forehead against the fence .
20105m “ A girl of six or seven—that is , a little younger than Vampa—tended sheep on a farm near Palestrina ; she was an orphan , born at Valmontone and was named Teresa .
Yes , appearances were against me and I was about to suffer dishonor .
“ Well !
Their course was clearly defined : they were to follow the road toward Compiegne and on emerging from the forest turn to the right .
The banker saw the carriage of the count enter the courtyard , and advanced to meet him with a sad , though affable smile .
As he was about to pass , the wind blew out Porthos ’ s long cloak , and D ’ Artagnan rushed straight into the middle of it .
The friendship which united these four men , and the need they felt of seeing another three or four times a day , whether for dueling , business , or pleasure , caused them to be continually running after one another like shadows ; and the Inseparables were constantly to be met with seeking one another , from the Luxembourg to the Place St. Sulpice , or from the Rue du Vieux-Colombier to the Luxembourg .
“ Impossible !
He approached , paid her some well merited compliments on her toilet , and offered his arm to conduct her to a seat .
Upon a word from her , I would betray my country , I would betray my king , I would betray my God .
Their plan was to pass through the hole they were making into this loft and cut out from below a piece of the flooring of the king ’ s room , so as to form a kind of trap-door .
“ Zounds !
In politics , my dear fellow , you know , as well as I do , there are no men , but ideas—no feelings , but interests ; in politics we do not kill a man , we only remove an obstacle , that is all .
“ After some search , I found that the floor gave a hollow sound near the head of the bed , and at the hearth. ” “ Yes , ” said the count , “ yes. ” “ I raised the stones , and found—— ” “ A rope-ladder and some tools ? ” “ How do you know that ? ” asked the guide in astonishment .
I wanted to cry out to warn the king , but that very moment I felt a blow as if the house was falling on my head , and fell insensible .
The soldiers , whom he was nearly trampling , ran away .
Sure enough !
Franz drew his handkerchief from his pocket , and presented it to the man who had spoken to him .
Aided by the remaining fragment , I guessed the rest ; measuring the length of the lines by those of the paper , and divining the hidden meaning by means of what was in part revealed , as we are guided in a cavern by the small ray of light above us. ” “ And what did you do when you arrived at this conclusion ? ” “ I resolved to set out , and did set out at that very instant , carrying with me the beginning of my great work , the unity of the Italian kingdom ; but for some time the imperial police ( who at this period , quite contrary to what Napoleon desired so soon as he had a son born to him , wished for a partition of provinces ) had their eyes on me ; and my hasty departure , the cause of which they were unable to guess , having aroused their suspicions , I was arrested at the very moment I was leaving Piombino .
All night he was lulled by the melancholy noise of the surf .
“ I again reminded her that you were a friend , and that she need not conceal anything from you. ” “ Then , ” said Albert , “ this pious pilgrimage in behalf of the prisoners was your first remembrance ; what is the next ? ” “ Oh , then I remember as if it were but yesterday sitting under the shade of some sycamore-trees , on the borders of a lake , in the waters of which the trembling foliage was reflected as in a mirror .
But a man , were he even a mercer , when he had talked for ten minutes with Cardinal Richelieu , is no longer the same man .
Let us go immediately. ” They sent for a cabriolet .
Milady had already rung her bell , and roused the whole hôtel .
It was still about a quarter full , as we before stated .
At the same instant Aramis placed his sword point on the breast of his fallen enemy , and forced him to ask for mercy .
Upon arriving at her hotel , Franz perceived that she had deceived him when she spoke of expecting company ; on the contrary , her own return before the appointed hour seemed greatly to astonish the servants .
“ You see , then , why I must decline your polite invitation , which is especially attractive to me , because nothing is so wearisome as to play night after night with the same person ; the chances always balance and at the month ’ s end nothing is gained or lost. ” “ Ah ! ” said Groslow , sighing ; “ there is something still more wearisome , and that is not to play at all. ” “ I can understand that , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
They descended the great staircase , taking with them all the guards they found on their road , and crying out , “ To arms !
Kitty went to her mistress , and did not leave the door open ; but the partition was so thin that one could hear nearly all that passed between the two women .
They made all speed to come up to this gentleman , who appeared to be in great haste .
But , it is well known , what strikes the capricious mind of the poet is not always what affects the mass of readers .
She had still her nymph-like form , so that when her back was turned she still was not unlike the girl who had jumped , with Anne of Austria , over the moat of the Tuileries in 1563 .
Coquenard drew the dish toward her , skillfully detached the two great black feet , which she placed upon her husband ’ s plate , cut off the neck , which with the head she put on one side for herself , raised the wing for Porthos , and then returned the bird otherwise intact to the servant who had brought it in , who disappeared with it before the Musketeer had time to examine the variations which disappointment produces upon faces , according to the characters and temperaments of those who experience it .
“ You see , ” said Raoul , “ we have done wisely. ” “ What a horrible face that monk has , ” said De Guiche .
Imagine the large and splendid Corso , bordered from one end to the other with lofty palaces , with their balconies hung with carpets , and their windows with flags .
The count and Franz ascended seven or eight steps after the chief , who drew back a bolt and opened a door .
Andrea Cavalcanti , or rather M. Benedetto , is nothing more nor less than an assassin ! ” “ Sir , I do not deny the justice of your correction , but the more severely you arm yourself against that unfortunate man , the more deeply will you strike our family .
I have already answered that question in the affirmative ; but that command must come from the queen herself. ” “ Yes !
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE , STRICT LIABILITY , BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3 .
The scene of the previous night now came back to his mind with startling clearness .
D ’ Artagnan gave up his bed to any one who wanted it , making it over about a dozen times ; and since he was supposed to have paid , like the others , a louis for his truss of straw , he pocketed in that way thirty louis in less than half an hour .
“ Good-morning , Lucien , good-morning , ” said Albert ; “ your punctuality really alarms me .
“ You see , they are going to send a whole regiment against us , ” said Athos .
It is very easy , ” he went on with a smile ; “ I will remain here , rush on the first person that opens the door , strangle him , and then they will guillotine me. ” But excessive grief is like a storm at sea , where the frail bark is tossed from the depths to the top of the wave .
When the count arrived , he had under his touch his books and arms , his eyes rested upon his favorite pictures ; his dogs , whose caresses he loved , welcomed him in the antechamber ; the birds , whose songs delighted him , cheered him with their music ; and the house , awakened from its long sleep , like the sleeping beauty in the wood , lived , sang , and bloomed like the houses we have long cherished , and in which , when we are forced to leave them , we leave a part of our souls .
Athos fell on his knees and remained some minutes as if bewildered or stunned .
He resolved , therefore , to let things take their course without making any direct overture to the count .
He told me—let me think—what was it ?
“ What means this ? ” asked the count .
All my misfortunes arise from my having said nearly what you have said before a woman whom I thought my friend , and who betrayed me .
Bernouin ! ” Bernouin entered .
Danglars fancied that they had reached the long-desired point ; he opened his eyes and looked through the window , expecting to find himself in the midst of some town , or at least village ; but he saw nothing except what seemed like a ruin , where three or four men went and came like shadows .
He has not been unreasonably exacting , it seems to me .
don ’ t be a coward , or I shall cut off your ears .
What people are you leading thus into the bowels of the earth ? ” “ My fifty recruits from the Chevalier d ’ Humieres , who are destined to enter the light cavalry and who have only received as yet for their equipment their white cloaks. ” “ And where are you going ? ” “ To the house of one of my friends , a sculptor , only we enter by the trap through which he lets down his marble. ” “ Very good , ” said Gondy , shaking Rochefort by the hand , who descended in his turn and closed the trap after him .
“ Come , come ! ” cried Rochefort .
Hold yourself ready then to join me at the Champs-Élysées , and lead me out of this house without anyone seeing my departure. ” Maximilian hung his head , and obeyed with childlike reverence .
“ There remains the valise , ” added Porthos .
“ On , on ! ” he cried , “ this is no moment for compliments ; or rather , back , for the battle seems to be lost by the Frondeurs. ” “ It is a matter of indifference to me , ” said Aramis ; “ I came here only to meet De Chatillon ; I have met him , I am contented ; ’ tis something to have met De Chatillon in a duel ! ” “ And besides , we have a prisoner , ” said Athos , pointing to Raoul .
“ Well , let us , as you say , go and ask a dinner from the master of that house .
“ It is he ! ” exclaimed De Winter , seizing the arm of Athos ; “ it is he !
what a horrible scene !
ho !
For the rest , he was dumb , blind , and deaf , and of unimpeachable fidelity .
His devotion to the queen was boundless ; men of loyalty are scarce. ” “ I think so , forsooth , ” said Rochefort , “ and when you find any of them , you march them off to the Bastile .
The first thing he perceived through the damp gray mist was honest Planchet , who , with the two horses in hand , awaited him at the door of a little blind cabaret , before which D ’ Artagnan had passed without even a suspicion of its existence .
Signor Pastrini came to the door to receive his guests .
“ Speak , then , chevalier ! ” said the cardinal .
Emmanuel tried to comfort the women , but his eloquence faltered .
Send me five hundred pistoles , and four or five days after I have received them I shall be in Paris. ” On the same day the cardinal received this letter the king put his customary question to him .
“ Well , sirs ! ” cried the queen , on perceiving the two friends , “ you have come , faithful friends !
Upon my word !
“ One is for seven o ’ clock , and the other for eight ; there will be time for both. ” “ Hum !
“ When you pay me a visit in my cell , my young friend , ” said he , “ I will show you an entire work , the fruits of the thoughts and reflections of my whole life ; many of them meditated over in the shades of the Colosseum at Rome , at the foot of St. Mark ’ s column at Venice , and on the borders of the Arno at Florence , little imagining at the time that they would be arranged in order within the walls of the Château d ’ If .
He brought it to bear , skillfully executed it with the rapidity of lightning , and struck the blow with a force which he fancied would prove irresistible .
In the home of the witty abbé dwelt incessant laughter ; there all the items of the day had their source and were so quickly transformed , misrepresented , metamorphosed , some into epigrams , some into falsehoods , that every one was anxious to pass an hour with little Scarron , listening to what he said , reporting it to others .
Alas !
The officer desired to have Milady ’ s packages pointed out to him , and ordered them to be placed in the boat .
No , it had just struck four .
I am no longer astonished that you knew me not .
“ Have you the money he demands ? ” “ Yes , all but eight hundred piastres. ” The count went to his _secrétaire_ , opened it , and pulling out a drawer filled with gold , said to Franz , “ I hope you will not offend me by applying to anyone but myself. ” “ You see , on the contrary , I come to you first and instantly , ” replied Franz .
I understand you or rather , I am wrong .
D ’ Artagnan took upon himself that more than difficult task .
I told her of the scaffold ; oh , Heavens , I forgot that it awaits me also !
Thinking that Porthos will be at last a Baron , and D ’ Artagnan a Captain .
“ Do you know , ” said Porthos , “ that to twist that damned Milady ’ s neck would be a smaller sin than to twist those of these poor devils of Huguenots , who have committed no other crime than singing in French the psalms we sing in Latin ? ” “ What says the abbé ? ” asked Athos , quietly .
I wrote to Franz—and were he here he would confirm every word—I wrote then to Franz that if he did not come with the four thousand crowns before six , at ten minutes past I should have gone to join the blessed saints and glorious martyrs in whose company I had the honor of being ; and Signor Luigi Vampa , such was the name of the chief of these bandits , would have scrupulously kept his word. ” “ But Franz did come with the four thousand crowns , ” said Château-Renaud .
A tall young man , with light hair , clear gray eyes , and thin and compressed lips , dressed in a blue coat with beautifully carved gold buttons , a white neckcloth , and a tortoiseshell eye-glass suspended by a silken thread , and which , by an effort of the superciliary and zygomatic muscles , he fixed in his eye , entered , with a half-official air , without smiling or speaking .
“ I know it will serve me as it did when we came over. ” “ And to think , ” said Mousqueton , “ that we have nothing to fight seasickness with but barley bread and hop beer .
Only I say that if I were named Madame de Montpensier , or the Queen Marie de Médicis , I should use less precautions than I take , being simply called Milady Clarik. ” “ That is just , ” said Richelieu .
As soon as he took to flight every one pursued him , until , pressed on all sides , Scarron found no way of escaping his escort , except by throwing himself into the river ; but the water was icy cold .
Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg : 1.E.1 .
Oh , bid him enter ! ” And the queen advanced to meet the messenger , whose hand she seized affectionately , whilst he knelt down and presented a letter to her , contained in a case of gold .
“ Barrois , ” said Valentine , “ shut the door , and let no one come in. ” She passed first .
All this is perhaps folly—perhaps insanity ; but tell me what woman has a lover more truly in love ; what queen a servant more ardent ? ” “ My Lord , my Lord , you invoke in your defense things which accuse you more strongly .
The shadow Monte Cristo had noticed passed rapidly behind the tomb of Abélard and Héloïse , placed itself close to the heads of the horses belonging to the hearse , and following the undertaker ’ s men , arrived with them at the spot appointed for the burial .
But I give you warning that if in polishing your chapel utensils you forget how to brighten up my sword , I will make a great fire of your blessed images and will see that you are roasted on it. ” Bazin , scandalized , made a sign of the cross with the bottle in his hand .
Fortunately the storm began to subside , but still the sea was disturbed .
“ This , then , ” continued Aramis , “ was my first opinion ; but as I am very ignorant in matters of this kind and as the humility which I profess obliges me not to rest on my own judgment , but to ask the opinion of others , I have inquired—Eh ! —my friend—— ” Aramis paused .
Mordaunt had called on the bishop that very evening to apprise him of the religious desire expressed by the king and also of Cromwell ’ s permission .
She entered the office where Emmanuel was , while Cocles , by the aid of a key he possessed , opened a door in the corner of a landing-place on the second staircase , conducted the stranger into an antechamber , opened a second door , which he closed behind him , and after having left the clerk of the house of Thomson & French alone , returned and signed to him that he could enter .
It was still more impossible to remain in the department of the Oise , one of the most open and strictly guarded in France ; this was quite out of the question , especially to a man like Andrea , perfectly conversant with criminal matters .
D ’ Artagnan unfolded the paper .
“ You have never seen our Africans , count ? ” said Albert .
“ How , sir ! ” said Planchet , “ is it you ? ” “ Eh !
De Guiche , as we have said before , had been educated at the court , and the intrigues of this court were not unknown to him .
How absurd—as if one crown were not as good as another .
“ Come along !
her temper was uncertain , but she came at last to accustom herself to my little ways and understand my little wishes. ” “ So you are free now , and rich ? ” “ Alas ! ” groaned Porthos , “ I am a widower and have forty thousand francs a year .
I used all my influence with one of the committee , a young peer of my acquaintance , to get admission to one of the galleries .
“ But wait .
“ Dear Maximilian , ” interrupted the count , “ listen how adorably Duprez is singing that line , — ‘ O Mathilde !
The old servant left the room , and presently returned , bringing with him a small casket .
“ I wish it. ” Then Aramis , paler than before , but subdued by these words , snapped the serpent blade between his hands , and then folding his arms , stood trembling with rage .
Hunger made viands once repugnant , now acceptable ; he held the plate in his hand for an hour at a time , and gazed thoughtfully at the morsel of bad meat , of tainted fish , of black and mouldy bread .
“ Oh !
At this moment the duke ’ s surgeon arrived , quite terrified ; he was already on board the admiral ’ s ship , where they had been obliged to seek him .
At the door he stopped to listen .
free !
We separated at midnight .
“ But it was no disgrace to your friend to have been deceived ; Beppo has taken in plenty of others. ” “ And Beppo led him outside the walls ? ” said the count .
“ It is I—Mousqueton , ” said a mournful voice , whilst a sort of shadow arose out of the side of the road .
In that case , and supposing he was at liberty , he was to rejoin her in France , at the convent of the Carmelites at Béthune .
“ Dantès , ” repeated he , “ Edmond Dantès. ” “ Yes , monsieur. ” Villefort opened a large register , then went to a table , from the table turned to his registers , and then , turning to Morrel , “ Are you quite sure you are not mistaken , monsieur ? ” said he , in the most natural tone in the world .
Wasn ’ t I right to part with the horses ? ” Madame Danglars surveyed her husband with a look of withering contempt .
“ Ah , monsieur , ” said Mousqueton , “ then you have come here only to awaken our regrets. ” “ I fear that is true , ” said D ’ Artagnan , in a low tone .
There was a great press of people in M. de Villefort ’ s antechamber , but Madame Danglars had no occasion even to pronounce her name .
“ Well , ” said Franz to his friend , “ what think you of all this ? ” “ Why , upon my soul , my dear fellow , it strikes me that our elegant and attentive neighbor must either be some successful stock-jobber who has speculated in the fall of the Spanish funds , or some prince travelling _incog_. ” “ Hush , hush ! ” replied Franz ; “ we shall ascertain who and what he is—he comes ! ” As Franz spoke , he heard the sound of a door turning on its hinges , and almost immediately afterwards the tapestry was drawn aside , and the owner of all these riches stood before the two young men .
At the first beat Porthos rushed out and stood on the other side of the door .
Chapter LXXVI .
“ Yes , it is an extraordinary story , ” said Beauchamp ; “ is it not ? ” “ It is absurd , ” said Debray .
We are going , in order to win it , to remain an hour in the bastion .
I , too , would give up that good Monsieur Broussel , dead or alive , and all would be at an end. ” “ If you yield him dead , all will indeed be at an end , my lord , but quite otherwise than you mean. ” “ Did I say ‘ dead or alive ? ’ ” replied Mazarin .
They mounted again at once , whilst looks of admiration passed between them .
The love with which his young wife had inspired him was a secondary sentiment , and was not strong enough to contend with the primitive feelings we have just enumerated .
“ And now , my young friend , for you will permit me , I hope , to give you that name , ” said Lord de Winter , “ on this very evening , if agreeable to you , I will present you to my sister , Milady Clarik , for I am desirous that she should take you into her good graces ; and as she is not in bad odor at court , she may perhaps on some future day speak a word that will not prove useless to you. ” D ’ Artagnan blushed with pleasure , and bowed a sign of assent .
His Majesty , in full dress , was accompanied by his royal Highness , M. le Comte de Soissons , by the Grand Prior , by the Duc de Longueville , by the Duc d ’ Eubœuf , by the Comte d ’ Harcourt , by the Comte de la Roche-Guyon , by M. de Liancourt , by M. de Baradas , by the Comte de Cramail , and by the Chevalier de Souveray .
“ Where do your excellencies wish to go ? ” asked he .
She did not , therefore , even attempt the least resistance , and went out of the cottage .
“ What is the matter ?
Descending into the grotto , he lifted the stone , filled his pockets with gems , put the box together as well and securely as he could , sprinkled fresh sand over the spot from which it had been taken , and then carefully trod down the earth to give it everywhere a uniform appearance ; then , quitting the grotto , he replaced the stone , heaping on it broken masses of rocks and rough fragments of crumbling granite , filling the interstices with earth , into which he deftly inserted rapidly growing plants , such as the wild myrtle and flowering thorn , then carefully watering these new plantations , he scrupulously effaced every trace of footsteps , leaving the approach to the cavern as savage-looking and untrodden as he had found it .
“ My lord , ” answered De Chavigny , with a low bow , “ I have on the ramparts twenty pieces of artillery and in my casemates thirty thousand guns .
Let us sail before the wind , and unless it changes we shall be drifted either to Calais or Boulogne .
The president read : “ ‘ Mr .
At first they saw nothing around them .
“ And what guarantee will you give me , ” asked she , “ if I consent to confide this message to you ? ” “ My love for you .
He is really king of Paris ; he can ’ t go out without being mobbed by his admirers. ” “ Ah !
In that case I will forgive him. ” And the musketeer rose , grumbling , took his sword , hat , pistols , and cloak , and followed the officer , whilst Porthos , alone and sole possessor of the bed , endeavored to follow the good example of falling asleep , which his predecessor had set him .
If it be but to carry away with me the recollection of such sweet moments , I could even thank you for chiding me , for it leaves me a gleam of hope , that if you did not expect me ( and that indeed would be worse than vanity to suppose ) , at least I was in your thoughts .
“ Tell the count that I am well ; that you found me sad , but resigned. ” “ I am pleased , sir , to hear that. ” “ And the same , also , for Monsieur du Vallon—— ” “ Not for me , ” cried Porthos ; “ I am not by any means resigned. ” “ But you will be resigned , my friend. ” “ Never ! ” “ He will become so , monsieur ; I know him better than he knows himself .
Bonacieux , but without being able to make a step , glued as she was to the spot by terror .
“ Port , ” he said , extending his hand in the direction of the first compartment examined by D ’ Artagnan and himself .
Here I have a garden laid out in such a way as to afford the fullest scope for the imagination , and furnished with thickly grown trees , beneath whose leafy screen a visionary like myself may conjure up phantoms at will .
“ I misunderstood you .
She entered the apartment , and seeing near her stepmother the stranger of whom she had already heard so much , saluted him without any girlish awkwardness , or even lowering her eyes , and with an elegance that redoubled the count ’ s attention .
Eight vigorous arms lifted him up immediately and laid him in the boat , where directly Athos was warmed and reanimated , reviving with the caresses and cares of his friends , who were intoxicated with joy .
“ This evening , ” said the governor .
Your hand , for perhaps we shall not see each other again. ” Athos put his arm around Aramis ’ s neck and embraced him .
He left the box and dice where they fell , threw the purse to the wounded man , and eagerly opened the pocketbook .
Edmond smiled when he beheld himself ; it was impossible that his best friend—if , indeed , he had any friend left—could recognize him ; he could not recognize himself .
This costs us nothing , and saves the life , or at least the liberty , of a fellow-creature , who on the first occasion returns the service by pointing out some safe spot where we can land our goods without interruption. ” “ Ah ! ” said Franz , “ then you are a smuggler occasionally , Gaetano ? ” “ Your excellency , we must live somehow , ” returned the other , smiling impenetrably .
“ No , my lord ; these places are bought .
Cromwell gazed a moment after him .
The permission to do what he liked with the carriage pleased him above all , for the fair peasants had appeared in a most elegant carriage the preceding evening , and Albert was not sorry to be upon an equal footing with them .
The bolt gave way and the door opened .
Then Caderousse , feeling that he was leaving him , raised himself on his elbow , and with a dying voice cried with great effort : “ Murder !
He likewise thought this was an opportunity for talking about pretty little Mme .
Baptistin left the room without waiting to answer , and in two seconds reappeared , bringing on a tray , all that his master had ordered , ready prepared , and appearing to have sprung from the ground , like the repasts which we read of in fairy tales .
We shall descend by the first window in the gallery. ” “ What next ? ” “ Sign your name , my lord. ” The duke signed .
See !
They read to Noirtier the formal copy of a will , in order to give him an idea of the terms in which such documents are generally couched ; then , in order to test the capacity of the testator , the first notary said , turning towards him : “ When an individual makes his will , it is generally in favor or in prejudice of some person. ” “ Yes. ” “ Have you an exact idea of the amount of your fortune ? ” “ Yes. ” “ I will name to you several sums which will increase by gradation ; you will stop me when I reach the one representing the amount of your own possessions ? ” “ Yes. ” There was a kind of solemnity in this interrogation .
“ All is well , I thank you ; now leave us alone , Mr. Felton. ” Chapter L. CHAT BETWEEN BROTHER AND SISTER During the time which Lord de Winter took to shut the door , close a shutter , and draw a chair near to his sister-in-law ’ s _fauteuil_ , Milady , anxiously thoughtful , plunged her glance into the depths of possibility , and discovered all the plan , of which she could not even obtain a glance as long as she was ignorant into whose hands she had fallen .
“ Certainly not !
Athos went round the house before he could distinguish the door , amid the red color in which the house was painted .
“ Sir , ” he said , “ you are a profound thinker and your plan was sublime. ” “ Say absurd , since it has become useless .
There is nothing now to prevent my building myself a little hut on my plantation , and residing not twenty yards from you .
‘ Ah , ’ said the captain , ‘ we have still too much canvas set ; all hands lower the mainsail ! ’ Five minutes after , it was down ; and we sailed under mizzen-topsails and top-gallant sails .
Monte Cristo was eager to ascertain the strength and number of his enemies .
Pardon you , monseigneur !
She bent forwards as though to assure herself of the reality of what she saw , then , uttering a faint cry , threw herself back in her seat .
I thought I had told you a most lamentable story. ” And he looked at the young man as if he would read the bottom of his heart .
It was empty as yet , but a pheasant and two partridges were lying near it .
He showed the more respect to this queen , deprived of every mark of pomp and stripped of followers , as he felt some self-reproach for his own want of heart and his avarice .
“ Oh , Maximilian , Maximilian , you are certainly concealing something from us. ” “ Pshaw ! ” said Monte Cristo , “ you will see him return to you gay , smiling , and joyful. ” Maximilian cast a look of disdain , almost of anger , on the count .
“ What Scotch ? ” “ Ours , egad ! ” exclaimed Athos .
Then the Castle of Saint Angelo fired three cannon to indicate that number three had won .
She cast her eyes again over the note to peruse it a second time , and saw there was a postscript .
“ Oh , I remember , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the _valet-de-chambre_ .
We will snatch some supper ; we shall perhaps travel part of the night , and must keep our strength up. ” “ Great God ! ” said Mme .
“ Thank you , ” said Edmond with a friendly nod , and the two lovers continued on their way , as calm and joyous as if they were the very elect of heaven .
“ Monsieur le marechal , ” said the queen , after a moment ’ s reflection , “ go and find the coadjutor and bring him to me. ” “ And what shall I say to the people ? ” “ That they must have patience , ” said Anne , “ as I have. ” The fiery Spanish woman spoke in a tone so imperative that the marechal made no reply ; he bowed and went out .
He never spoke to him , except under the most extraordinary occasions .
I shall become worthy of her gratitude ; but shall I likewise return worthy of your love ? ” The young woman only replied by the beautiful glow which mounted to her cheeks .
“ Laugh as much as you will , ” replied Albert , “ I am in love. ” “ You alarm me , ” cried Franz .
Dantès concealed two or three of the sharpest fragments in his bed , leaving the rest on the floor .
“ But why the devil dost thou run about the tops of houses at seven o ’ clock of the morning in the month of January ? ” “ Sir , ” said Planchet , “ you must know ; but , perhaps you ought not to know—— ” “ Tell us what , ” returned D ’ Artagnan , “ but first put a napkin against the window and draw the curtains. ” “ Sir , ” said the prudent Planchet , “ in the first place , are you on good terms with Monsieur de Rochefort ? ” “ Perfectly ; one of my dearest friends. ” “ Ah !
What is his name ? ” “ Major Cavalcanti. ” “ Is he pleased with you ? ” “ So far I have appeared to answer his purpose. ” “ And who found this father for you ? ” “ The Count of Monte Cristo. ” “ The man whose house you have just left ? ” “ Yes. ” “ I wish you would try and find me a situation with him as grandfather , since he holds the money-chest ! ” “ Well , I will mention you to him .
“ Dead ? ” “ No , dying. ” “ Saddled ? ” “ Yes , saddled and bridled. ” “ Then we are upon the fugitives. ” “ Courage , we have them ! ” “ But if they are numerous , ” observed Mousqueton , “ ’ tis not we who have them , but they who have us. ” “ Nonsense ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ they ’ ll suppose us to be stronger than themselves , as we ’ re in pursuit ; they ’ ll be afraid and will disperse. ” “ Certainly , ” remarked Porthos .
Come and watch by the dead , and all the wretched family will be grateful to you. ” “ I am going , sir ; and I do not hesitate to say that no prayers will be more fervent than mine. ” D ’ Avrigny took the priest ’ s hand , and without meeting Villefort , who was engaged in his study , they reached Valentine ’ s room , which on the following night was to be occupied by the undertakers .
“ The Frondeurs will have a treaty and your eminence must sign it before us , promising at the same time to obtain the queen ’ s consent to it. ” “ I can answer only for myself , ” said Mazarin .
“ This marriage , ” added Madame de Villefort , “ is quite agreeable to the wishes of M. d ’ Épinay and his family ; besides , he had no relations nearer than an uncle and aunt , his mother having died at his birth , and his father having been assassinated in 1815 , that is to say , when he was but two years old ; it naturally followed that the child was permitted to choose his own pursuits , and he has , therefore , seldom acknowledged any other authority but that of his own will. ” “ That assassination was a mysterious affair , ” said Villefort , “ and the perpetrators have hitherto escaped detection , although suspicion has fallen on the head of more than one person. ” Noirtier made such an effort that his lips expanded into a smile .
It is by his courage , please observe , by his courage alone , that a gentleman can make his way nowadays .
The doctor analyzed the symptoms of the malady to which the prisoner had succumbed , and declared that he was dead .
“ I am commissioned to seize your person , sir , ” said Comminges , in the same tone and with the same politeness ; “ and if you will believe me you had better spare yourself the trouble of reading that long letter and follow me. ” A thunderbolt falling in the midst of these good people , so peacefully assembled there , would not have produced a more appalling effect .
Every instant Mme .
Such was the state of society in Paris at the period we bring before our readers , when Monte Cristo went one evening to pay M. Danglars a visit .
Dantès uttered a cry of joy and surprise ; never had a first attempt been crowned with more perfect success .
Chapter LXXXIII .
the Scotch , ” he exclaimed , “ the Scotch I called ‘ my faithful , ’ to whom I trusted myself when I could have fled to Oxford !
You believe so ? ” “ I dare not positively assert it , as he has been lost for so long a time. ” “ Well , then , ” said Monte Cristo “ you have all the documents with you ? ” “ Your excellency , I regret to say that , not knowing it was necessary to come provided with these papers , I neglected to bring them. ” “ That is unfortunate , ” returned Monte Cristo .
As they entered the circle , the bandits could perceive , by the firelight , the unearthly pallor of the young girl and of Diavolaccio .
Are you not the beloved of one of my best friends ? ” “ Dear D ’ Artagnan !
“ Be on the qui vive ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
It was then , upon the manifestation of this astonishment , that D ’ Artagnan related to him the precaution taken , and how , thanks to the devotion of his three friends , whom he had left scattered and bleeding on the road , he had succeeded in coming off with a single sword thrust , which had pierced the queen ’ s letter and for which he had repaid M. de Wardes with such terrible coin .
‘ Once upon a time—— ’ Well , go on. ” Signor Pastrini turned toward Franz , who seemed to him the more reasonable of the two ; we must do him justice , —he had had a great many Frenchmen in his house , but had never been able to comprehend them .
Cucumetto fancied for a moment the young man was about to take her in his arms and fly ; but this mattered little to him now Rita had been his ; and as for the money , three hundred piastres distributed among the band was so small a sum that he cared little about it .
“ Unhappy girl , ” replied Eugénie , “ unhappy girl , do you say , sir ?
He approached the other door , and taking off his hat respectfully , said , “ Madame , will you permit me to offer you my services ?
What passed in the mind of this man at the supreme moment of his agony can not be told in words .
“ Well , this surprises me , for I thought you took the liveliest interest in all my affairs ! ” 30243m “ I ?
With the four hundred livres we will make the half of one for one of the unmounted , and then we will give the turnings out of our pockets to D ’ Artagnan , who has a steady hand , and will go and play in the first gaming house we come to .
“ You see , ” said Porthos , “ this is my usual style. ” “ Devil take me ! ” answered D ’ Artagnan , “ I wish you joy of it .
Her mouth , which might have been found fault with as too large , displayed teeth of pearly whiteness , rendered still more conspicuous by the brilliant carmine of her lips , contrasting vividly with her naturally pale complexion .
It was time ; for Athos , whose great courage alone supported him , sank upon his knee .
In six hours they reached Compiegne and alighted at the Peacock .
Have you forgotten that M. Debray has just seen you at my house ? ” “ Ah , true. ” “ Fix it this way .
Athos invited D ’ Artagnan to follow them ; and although ignorant of the game , which he had never played , he accepted , not knowing what to do with his time from nine o ’ clock in the morning , as it then scarcely was , till twelve .
Edward begged for a long while , the maternal kiss probably not offering sufficient recompense for the trouble he must take to obtain it ; however at length he decided , leaped out of the window into a cluster of heliotropes and daisies , and ran to his mother , his forehead streaming with perspiration .
“ Yes , ” continued his eminence ; “ under certain circumstances , with that strong and shrewd mind your majesty possesses , aided by your friends , you were able to repel the attacks of that adversary. ” “ I ! ” said the queen .
“ And yet , ” said Aramis , “ I am somewhat of Porthos ’ s opinion. ” “ Is the king accustomed to give you such reasons ?
Besides , here is a piquant _fricandeau_ and a fillet of beef. ” “ I am recruiting myself , ” said Porthos , “ I am recruiting myself .
“ A very respectable lady , ” said Aramis .
“ Monsieur , the Cardinal Mazarin has been so kind as to think of me , ” he said .
“ All is ready , sire , ” said he .
This time the marshal charged , but he was welcomed by musket shots , while stones fell like hail from all the windows .
In the first place , that , unfortunately , your husband is a simpleton and a fool ; in the next place , you are in trouble , of which I am very glad , as it gives me an opportunity of placing myself at your service , and God knows I am ready to throw myself into the fire for you ; finally , that the queen wants a brave , intelligent , devoted man to make a journey to London for her .
“ Fifty thousand francs a year , ” said Porthos .
He therefore returned by the subterraneous gallery , and arrived in time to hear the exclamations of the turnkey , who called out for help .
D ’ Artagnan had calculated that in not going at once to the Palais Royal he would give Comminges time to arrive before him , and consequently to make the cardinal acquainted with the eminent services which he , D ’ Artagnan , and his friend had rendered to the queen ’ s party in the morning .
I see your features regain their calmness , your countenance recovers its assurance .
One of the Forty Methods of Escape of the Duc de Beaufort .
This garden has never been a cemetery. ” “ What is done to infanticides in this country ? ” asked Major Cavalcanti innocently .
But my wife wants a gold chain , and I want a pair of silver buckles. ’ “ The jeweller drew from his pocket a long flat box , which contained several samples of the articles demanded .
He believed , having triumphed over me in my sleep , that all was completed .
He returned speedily , advised the prisoner to be more careful , and departed .
I will tell him the ties which bind me to Mademoiselle Valentine ; if he be a sensible man , he will prove it by renouncing of his own accord the hand of his betrothed , and will secure my friendship , and love until death ; if he refuse , either through interest or ridiculous pride , after I have proved to him that he would be forcing my wife from me , that Valentine loves me , and will have no other , I will fight with him , give him every advantage , and I shall kill him , or he will kill me ; if I am victorious , he will not marry Valentine , and if I die , I am very sure Valentine will not marry him. ” Noirtier watched , with indescribable pleasure , this noble and sincere countenance , on which every sentiment his tongue uttered was depicted , adding by the expression of his fine features all that coloring adds to a sound and faithful drawing .
Everywhere were swords , pistols , cuirasses , and arquebuses , and it was plain that as soon as his gout was better Monsieur de Bouillon would give a pretty tangle to the enemies of the parliament to unravel .
When the emperor returned , he wrote , implored , threatened , and so energetically , that on the second restoration he was persecuted as a Bonapartist .
Besides , remember that Alexander was lame and Hannibal had but one eye. ” “ Do you see any great advantage in adhering to this party ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
I have not seen such a one four times in my life .
“ Do you , then , love Mercédès ? ” “ I adore her ! ” “ For long ? ” “ As long as I have known her—always. ” “ And you sit there , tearing your hair , instead of seeking to remedy your condition ; I did not think that was the way of your people. ” “ What would you have me do ? ” said Fernand .
Louise slid through the half-open gate like a snake , and bounded lightly forward .
“ I must know what you mean to do ! ” said she .
Now then , what do you say to that ? ” “ Alas !
You should have allowed me to sleep .
“ I have the power of so doing , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ Nothing but saddles ? ” “ Now do you understand ? ” said Athos .
“ On our honor as gentlemen. ” “ Then I may tell you all .
“ If anyone comes , call me. ” “ I will , Lieutenant , ” said the soldier .
He saw in the young man his natural successor , and regretted that he had not a daughter , that he might have bound Edmond to him by a more secure alliance .
Comminges knocked at the door at the same moment , and Friquet was waiting behind Comminges until the door should be opened .
The gates had opened of themselves , and the king , ostensibly at least , had no other guard at his bed-head but his mother .
Monte Cristo knew everything , as he had bought the daughter of Ali Pasha ; and , knowing everything , he had advised Danglars to write to Yanina .
yes .
“ Monsieur Morrel , ” said Valentine to the young man , who was regarding her with the most intense interest , “ my grandfather , M. Noirtier , had a thousand things to say , which he told me three days ago ; and now , he has sent for you , that I may repeat them to you .
With a single bound the Musketeers were on their feet , and saluted with respect .
Presently they heard Milady retire to her room .
At length his eyes opened , but they were at first fixed and expressionless ; then sight returned , and with it feeling and grief .
Compiègne , that royal residence and fortified town , is well furnished with authorities , gendarmes , and commissaries of police ; they therefore began operations as soon as the telegraphic despatch arrived , and the Bell and Bottle being the best-known hotel in the town , they had naturally directed their first inquiries there .
We know the count ’ s vigorous and daring mind , denying anything to be impossible , with that energy which marks the great man .
“ To Paris first ; I have affairs to settle. ” And they both set out for Paris .
She inquired for the convent of the Carmelites , and went thither immediately .
He took his way toward the hôtel of M. de Tréville ; his visit of the day before , it is to be remembered , had been very short and very little explicative .
“ What is your name , my friend ? ” she said .
His eyes were fixed upon the little pavilion situated at the angle of the wall , of which all the windows were closed with shutters , except one on the first story .
“ This devil of a fellow , ” he muttered , shaking his head ; “ I said at the time he would create a sensation here , and I measure his effect by an infallible thermometer .
Is it not a curious affair ? ” “ So curious , that I think you are running a great risk of a prosecution for defamation of character. ” “ Not at all ; we have received with the information all the requisite proofs , and we are quite sure M. de Morcerf will not raise his voice against us ; besides , it is rendering a service to one ’ s country to denounce these wretched criminals who are unworthy of the honor bestowed on them. ” Beauchamp was thunderstruck .
You have once before thrown yourself in my path .
The sound was heard by the people about Ali , who instantly opened the box-door .
The steps were already down and the door open .
Remember , if you talk , if you babble , if you get drunk , you risk your master ’ s head , who has so much confidence in your fidelity , and who answers for you .
I will go straight to the Louvre ; I will give in my resignation as captain of the king ’ s Musketeers to take a lieutenancy in the cardinal ’ s Guards , and if he refuses me , _morbleu ! _ I will turn abbé. ” At these words , the murmur without became an explosion ; nothing was to be heard but oaths and blasphemies .
“ He ’ s well guarded now ; we only said he would escape. ” “ Who said so ? ” “ Repeat your story , Saint Laurent , ” replied the man , turning to the originator of the tale .
Yes , I was expected , and very impatiently , I acknowledge. ” A slight shade passed over the brow of Bonacieux , but so slight that D ’ Artagnan did not perceive it .
“ _Pardieu ! _ ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ you could not have arrived in better time ; the dinner can not have had time to get cold !
The coadjutor and his companion passed through all the streets lying between the archbishopric and the St. Eustache Church , watching carefully to ascertain the popular feeling .
He wished to show Albert the Colosseum by moonlight , as he had shown him Saint Peter ’ s by daylight .
This execution quieted the ill-disposed , who resolved to allow themselves to die of hunger—this death always appearing to them more slow and less sure than strangulation .
He remembered that Morcerf had been taxed at 4,000 crowns , and as he considered himself of much greater importance than Morcerf he fixed his own price at 8,000 crowns .
“ Then wait , ” said Aramis ; and with the terrible coolness which on important occasions he showed , he took one of the muskets from Tony , shouldered and aimed it at the young man , who stood , like the accusing angel , upon the rock .
“ The breakfast for these gentlemen is ready , ” said the host .
Here he is ! ” D ’ Artagnan , walking and soliloquizing , had arrived within a few steps of the hôtel d ’ Arguillon and in front of that hôtel perceived Aramis , chatting gaily with three gentlemen ; but as he had not forgotten that it was in presence of this young man that M. de Tréville had been so angry in the morning , and as a witness of the rebuke the Musketeers had received was not likely to be at all agreeable , he pretended not to see him .
monsieur marechal , you must indeed have found yourself in wondrous peril to have undertaken so strange a commission ! ” The irony with which these words were uttered did not escape the marechal .
When , the day after the arrival of this answer , your father came by the advice of Monte Cristo to ask my daughter ’ s hand for you , I decidedly refused him , but without any explanation or exposure .
“ Yes , but when once they are hamstrung , our necks will be strung next. ” “ If one of them comes to my side , ” asked Porthos , “ must I kill him ? ” “ Yes , by a blow of your fist , if you can ; we will not fire but at the last extremity. ” “ I can do it , ” said Porthos .
“ Well , my dear Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that ’ s the very thing it came into my head to do. ” Athos understood all now .
She cried out , but d ’ Avrigny paid no attention to her ; possessed with but one idea , he cleared the last four steps with a bound , and rushed into the kitchen , where he saw the decanter about three parts empty still standing on the waiter , where it had been left .
Grimaud entered .
“ Beat the messenger ! ” cried Porthos .
He was immediately recognized as one of them ; the handkerchief was thrown down , and the iron-heeled shoe replaced on the foot of the wretch to whom it belonged .
• You provide , in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3 , a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy , if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work .
“ You spoke to me , ” Athos resumed , “ of Porthos ; have you persuaded him to seek his fortune ?
“ Pardon me , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Madame Danglars trembled with fear ; Villefort started with joy .
I will write a letter today to the Director of the Royal Academy , and tomorrow he will admit you without any expense to yourself .
The soldiers , pushed back by these living walls , were in danger of being crushed against the spokes of the wheels and the panels of the carriages .
behold for what end the wretched Mazarin has made use of you .
I will have three _fleur-de-lis_ embroidered on it in gold , and will give it to your company as a standard. ” “ Monseigneur , ” said M. de Tréville , “ that will be unjust to the Guardsmen .
The Dinner It was evident that one sentiment affected all the guests on entering the dining-room .
By degrees the enchantress had clothed herself with that magic adornment which she assumed and threw aside at will ; that is to say , beauty , meekness , and tears—and above all , the irresistible attraction of mystical voluptuousness , the most devouring of all voluptuousness .
There are some situations which men understand by instinct , but which reason is powerless to explain ; in such cases the greatest poet is he who gives utterance to the most natural and vehement outburst of sorrow .
“ But then you yourself are known to others ? ” “ Yes , I am known , so that—— ” “ Proceed , my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti. ” “ So that you will remit to me these 48,000 francs ? ” “ Certainly , at your first request. ” The major ’ s eyes dilated with pleasing astonishment .
The clock of the Invalides struck a quarter to twelve ; the west wind bore on its moistened gusts the doleful vibration of the three strokes .
Bonacieux had disappeared , without his being able to discover what had become of her .
He reached it before the carriage arrived .
yes , of course , Mouston ; nothing else .
again condemned to silence—again face to face with nothingness !
“ It is no use , ” said the old man , “ there is no wine. ” “ What , no wine ? ” said Dantès , turning pale , and looking alternately at the hollow cheeks of the old man and the empty cupboards .
“ Are we to pass the night in the king ’ s room ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
ah !
“ We shall meet again , shall we not , monsieur ? ” “ When you please , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ And I for Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Marseilles resounded with their well-earned praises .
“ Stop , stop ! ” cried he , regaining strength by force of terror .
impious task ! ” cried Milady , with the exultation of a victim who provokes his judge .
Oh , Monsieur Chevalier , do you love that woman still ? ” “ No , no ; it is one of my friends who loves her—Monsieur Athos , this gentleman here. ” “ I ? ” cried Athos , with an accent like that of a man who perceives he is about to tread upon an adder .
“ And since he has sent for me , it is doubtless to question me on what happened there .
The ballet at length came to a close , and the curtain fell amid the loud , unanimous plaudits of an enthusiastic and delighted audience .
And to be free , a prisoner has to pierce a wall , detach bars , cut through a floor—all undertakings which a patient and strong man may accomplish , but before which the feverish irritations of a woman must give way .
it fills me with pride to find that , thanks to a common sort of penetration with which I am endowed , I am approved by a man like you , fresh from the court. ” “ But you speak of him , not of his party , his resources. ” “ It is true—the queen is for him. ” “ Something in his favor. ” “ But he will never have the king. ” “ A mere child. ” “ A child who will be of age in four years .
“ Does anyone dare to slander me ? ” “ Monsieur , I told you that I considered it best to avoid all explanation. ” “ Then , sir , I am patiently to submit to your refusal ? ” “ Yes , sir , although I assure you the refusal is as painful for me to give as it is for you to receive , for I had reckoned on the honor of your alliance , and the breaking off of a marriage contract always injures the lady more than the gentleman. ” “ Enough , sir , ” said Morcerf , “ we will speak no more on the subject. ” And clutching his gloves in anger , he left the apartment .
“ There go two miscreants ; ” said he , “ it is a pity they are not really related ! ” Then , after an instant of gloomy reflection , “ Come , I will go to see the Morrels , ” said he ; “ I think that disgust is even more sickening than hatred. ” 30147m Chapter 57 .
my darling !
“ And Aramis ; I see you have not forgotten the name. ” “ No , ” she said ; “ poor Aramis ; a charming man , elegant , discreet , and a writer of poetical verses .
I think it is time to stop this torrent of mortality .
Nevertheless , Bonacieux manifested real joy , and advanced toward his wife with open arms .
Has the ministry resigned ? ” “ No , my dear fellow , ” returned the young man , seating himself on the divan ; “ reassure yourself ; we are tottering always , but we never fall , and I begin to believe that we shall pass into a state of immobility , and then the affairs of the Peninsula will completely consolidate us. ” “ Ah , true ; you drive Don Carlos out of Spain. ” “ No , no , my dear fellow , do not confound our plans .
“ Why is that gendarme there ? ” asked Andrea of himself .
Ah , monseigneur ! ” continued Bonacieux , throwing himself at his Eminence ’ s feet , “ ah , how truly you are the cardinal , the great cardinal , the man of genius whom all the world reveres ! ” The cardinal , however contemptible might be the triumph gained over so vulgar a being as Bonacieux , did not the less enjoy it for an instant ; then , almost immediately , as if a fresh thought has occurred , a smile played upon his lips , and he said , offering his hand to the mercer , “ Rise , my friend , you are a worthy man. ” “ The cardinal has touched me with his hand !
La Ramee made one movement , in order to satisfy his conscience .
He was passing the Chinese Baths , and appeared to have come from the direction of the Porte Saint-Martin , and to be going towards the Madeleine .
It seemed to the prisoner that he could distinguish a feminine form on the beach , for it was there Mercédès dwelt .
Villefort met them at the door of his study ; having in a few words thanked the district doctor , he turned to d ’ Avrigny , and said : “ And now the priest. ” “ Is there any particular priest you wish to pray with Valentine ? ” asked d ’ Avrigny .
And the cry issued from his pores , if we may thus speak—a cry frightful in its silence .
The only difference consists in the opposite character of the equality advocated by these two men ; one is the equality that elevates , the other is the equality that degrades ; one brings a king within reach of the guillotine , the other elevates the people to a level with the throne .
Milady , however , smiled in observing that she excelled the young woman by far in her high air and aristocratic bearing .
“ Well , my dear friend ? ” said he , in as pure French as has ever been uttered between Rouen and Tours .
There is a sort of consolation at the contemplation of the yawning abyss , at the bottom of which lie darkness and obscurity .
Well , then , believe me , Athos , your mission is ended , and ended nobly ; return to France with us. ” “ Friend , ” said Athos , “ our resolution is irrevocable. ” “ Then you have some other motive unknown to us ? ” Athos smiled and D ’ Artagnan struck his hands together in anger and muttered the most convincing reasons that he could discover ; but to all these reasons Athos contented himself by replying with a calm , sweet smile and Aramis by nodding his head .
There he saw the grand-marshal , who charged him with an oral message to a Bonapartist in Paris , whose name I could not extract from him ; but this mission was to prepare men ’ s minds for a return ( it is the man who says this , sire ) —a return which will soon occur. ” “ And where is this man ? ” “ In prison , sire. ” “ And the matter seems serious to you ? ” “ So serious , sire , that when the circumstance surprised me in the midst of a family festival , on the very day of my betrothal , I left my bride and friends , postponing everything , that I might hasten to lay at your majesty ’ s feet the fears which impressed me , and the assurance of my devotion. ” “ True , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ was there not a marriage engagement between you and Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran ? ” “ Daughter of one of your majesty ’ s most faithful servants. ” “ Yes , yes ; but let us talk of this plot , M. de Villefort. ” “ Sire , I fear it is more than a plot ; I fear it is a conspiracy. ” “ A conspiracy in these times , ” said Louis XVIII. , smiling , “ is a thing very easy to meditate , but more difficult to conduct to an end , inasmuch as , re-established so recently on the throne of our ancestors , we have our eyes open at once upon the past , the present , and the future .
Deeply engaged with a sort of inward contemplation , Valentine had ceased for a moment to join in the conversation .
IN WHICH M. SÉGUIER , KEEPER OF THE SEALS , LOOKS MORE THAN ONCE FOR THE BELL It is impossible to form an idea of the impression these few words made upon Louis XIII .
I had two hundred thousand francs placed in the hands of Morrel & Son ; these two hundred thousand francs were the dowry of my daughter , who was to be married in a fortnight , and these two hundred thousand francs were payable , half on the 15th of this month , and the other half on the 15th of next month .
The general was pacing the room the third time when , in turning , he perceived Monte Cristo at the door .
When you complied with this twofold request you well knew we did not wish to secure the throne of Louis XVIII. , or we should not take so much care to avoid the vigilance of the police .
“ Because all gentlemen are brothers , because you are a gentleman , because the kings of all countries are the first among gentlemen , because the blind populace , ungrateful and brutal , always takes pleasure in pulling down what is above them .
M. de Tréville was the father of his soldiers .
Danglars has only been a secondary agent in this sad affair , and it is of M. de Monte Cristo that you must demand an explanation. ” Albert turned .
He no longer loved her ; he adored her .
As he passed them he said : “ They are extremely handsome certainly , and you have done well to purchase them , although you were somewhat remiss not to have procured them sooner. ” “ Indeed , your excellency , I had very considerable difficulty in obtaining them , and , as it is , they have cost an enormous price. ” “ Does the sum you gave for them make the animals less beautiful , ” inquired the count , shrugging his shoulders .
The house , with all its crumbling antiquity and apparent misery , was yet cheerful and picturesque , and was the same that old Dantès formerly inhabited—the only difference being that the old man occupied merely the garret , while the whole house was now placed at the command of Mercédès by the count .
Monte Cristo was engaged in examining this portrait with no less care than he had bestowed upon the other , when another door opened , and he found himself opposite to the Count of Morcerf in person .
“ Who and what are you ? ” demanded Villefort , turning over a pile of papers , containing information relative to the prisoner , that a police agent had given to him on his entry , and that , already , in an hour ’ s time , had swelled to voluminous proportions , thanks to the corrupt espionage of which “ the accused ” is always made the victim .
“ Maximilian ! ” said Valentine , “ Maximilian , come back , I entreat you ! ” He drew near with his sweet smile , and but for his paleness one might have thought him in his usual happy mood .
The effect of the present revelation was stunning ; he trembled and was on the verge of apoplexy .
The hungry friends , followed by their lackeys , were seen haunting the quays and Guard rooms , picking up among their friends abroad all the dinners they could meet with ; for according to the advice of Aramis , it was prudent to sow repasts right and left in prosperity , in order to reap a few in time of need .
He made a sign , which I understood , but the king ’ s guards must have noticed it and held themselves on guard .
“ Mon Dieu ! ” said the woman , crossing herself .
This great hatred which the young traveler manifested so loudly for this man , who—a rather improbable thing—had stolen his father ’ s letter from him—was there not some perfidy concealed under this hatred ?
All these he bequeathed to me , with a thousand Roman crowns , which he had in ready money , on condition that I would have anniversary masses said for the repose of his soul , and that I would draw up a genealogical tree and history of his house .
Reflect : promise to be silent , and riches , consideration , even honor , shall surround you ; threaten to speak , and I will condemn you to infamy. ’ “ ‘ You ? ’ cried I .
For the demon of speculation drew a line , or in other words projected a street , at the farther side of the kitchen-garden .
Let us get down , count , and examine this rock. ” They both alighted .
This fawn-colored hair , or , perhaps the sort of ascendancy which she had over other women , gave her the name of “ La Lionne. ” Mademoiselle Paulet took her accustomed seat , but before sitting down , she cast , in all her queen-like grandeur , a look around the room , and her eyes rested on Raoul .
“ You are about to swear upon your honor and I upon my word , and then it will be pretty evident that one of us will have lied .
“ We can not leave you here so , and yet we can not stay. ” “ Go , go ! ” exclaimed Dantès .
Has the sun done anything for me ?
La Ramee ! ” La Ramee came into the room .
It is hoped that no ties of friendship or humane consideration will induce you to conceal the truth. ” “ Provided , sir , the particulars you wish for do not interfere with my scruples or my conscience .
Then rising , with his head still covered , in the tone of a judge rather than a prisoner , Charles began .
Then rising in despair , he exclaimed , “ The chief , the chief ! ” “ Here I am , ” said Vampa , instantly appearing ; “ what do you want ? ” “ Take my last gold , ” muttered Danglars , holding out his pocket-book , “ and let me live here ; I ask no more for liberty—I only ask to live ! ” “ Then you suffer a great deal ? ” “ Oh , yes , yes , cruelly ! ” “ Still , there have been men who suffered more than you. ” “ I do not think so. ” “ Yes ; those who have died of hunger. ” Danglars thought of the old man whom , in his hours of delirium , he had seen groaning on his bed .
_Pardieu ! _ if you succeed with him , I pronounce you the demon himself. ” He went toward the door and opened it hastily .
I only know it says , ‘ Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor ’ s goods , nor yet his wife. ’ ” “ That is a child ’ s reason , Monsieur Blaisois , ” said Mousqueton in his most patronizing manner .
In addition to the sword , there was a portrait representing a nobleman of the time of Henry III. , dressed with the greatest elegance , and who wore the Order of the Holy Ghost ; and this portrait had certain resemblances of lines with Athos , certain family likenesses which indicated that this great noble , a knight of the Order of the King , was his ancestor .
“ Poor queen ! ” murmured Athos .
There , crouched against the side of the wall which attracts and retains the most heat , they may be seen sometimes talking to one another , but more frequently alone , watching the door , which sometimes opens to call forth one from the gloomy assemblage , or to throw in another outcast from society .
I took the trouble this morning to call on the pretended count—if he were a real count he wouldn ’ t be so rich .
The Indictment The judges took their places in the midst of the most profound silence ; the jury took their seats ; M. de Villefort , the object of unusual attention , and we had almost said of general admiration , sat in the armchair and cast a tranquil glance around him .
Out of the twenty Musketeers sixteen , when this took place , rejoiced greatly at this relaxation ; but the other four cursed it heartily .
Chapter XLI .
There happened then that which you know , and of which your precipitate departure , ” added the host , with an acuteness that did not escape D ’ Artagnan , “ appeared to authorize the issue .
Take my advice , leave things just as they are ; besides , you are neither of you now your own masters ; he belongs to the Fronde and you to the queen of England .
At this announcement of a battle having taken place , the princess opened her mouth as though to ask a question of interest ; but her lips closed again without articulating a word , while the color gradually faded from her cheeks .
all , all , all , are thine , my adored mistress ! ” And he kissed the letter with passion , without even vouchsafing a look at the gold which sparkled on the table .
I felt for it , found it , twisted it up together , and putting it into the expiring flame , set light to it .
I was induced to marry her about three years ago , although she had but very little dowry , because Monsieur Laporte , the queen ’ s cloak bearer , is her godfather , and befriends her. ” “ Well , monsieur ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
It was simply yet richly furnished .
Chapter XXVII .
This parallel disturbed his usual politeness , the philosophy he witnessed appalled him , he muttered a few words of general civility and ran downstairs .
“ Rochefort ! ” he exclaimed ; “ you !
The young sailor gave a look to see that his orders were promptly and accurately obeyed , and then turned again to the owner .
And they all looked with astonishment at this man whose eye now disclosed an intelligence and his body a vigor they had not thought him capable of showing .
“ Laugh , then , ” said Monsieur de Retz ; “ they are looking at us. ” And leaving Aramis he went to talk with Madame de Chevreuse , who was in the midst of a large group .
Have you never experienced for anyone that sudden and irresistible sympathy which made you feel as if the object of it had been your old and familiar friend , though , in reality , it was the first time you had ever met ?
D ’ Artagnan preferred the second means , and lifted the assassin onto his shoulders at the moment the enemy fired .
Chapter 33 .
Immediately M. de Tréville opened and pointed the way to Porthos and Aramis , who bore their comrade in their arms .
“ So much the worse , sir , ” said Anne of Austria ; “ so much the worse , at least for the queen , for to-day she has need of the same courage and the same devotion. ” “ What ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , “ does the queen , surrounded as she is by such devoted servants , such wise counselors , men , in short , so great by merit or position—does she deign to cast her eyes on an obscure soldier ? ” Anne understood this covert reproach and was more moved than irritated by it .
“ One more turn , captain ; twenty pistoles on one throw—only one , the last. ” “ Done for twenty , ” replied Groslow .
We will disguise ourselves as monster pulchinellos or shepherds of the Landes , and we shall have complete success. ” “ Do your excellencies still wish for a carriage from now to Sunday morning ? ” “ _Parbleu ! _ ” said Albert , “ do you think we are going to run about on foot in the streets of Rome , like lawyers ’ clerks ? ” “ I hasten to comply with your excellencies ’ wishes ; only , I tell you beforehand , the carriage will cost you six piastres a day. ” “ And , as I am not a millionaire , like the gentleman in the next apartments , ” said Franz , “ I warn you , that as I have been four times before at Rome , I know the prices of all the carriages ; we will give you twelve piastres for today , tomorrow , and the day after , and then you will make a good profit. ” “ But , excellency ” —said Pastrini , still striving to gain his point .
“ Whom must I announce to my Lord Duke ? ” asked Patrick .
She dreamed Don Carlos had returned to Spain ; she believes in dreams .
Those devilish Scotchmen are always thirsty .
There had been no stipulation in her favor .
Edmond , being consulted , was of opinion that the island afforded every possible security , and that great enterprises to be well done should be done quickly .
He has taken part against his queen , or rather , against her minister .
Edmond found some solace in these ideas .
They thought he slipped , as at first , and the witnesses , seeing he did not move , approached and endeavored to raise him , but the one who passed his arm around the body found it was moistened with blood .
On the front of the monument was inscribed : “ The families of Saint-Méran and Villefort , ” for such had been the last wish expressed by poor Renée , Valentine ’ s mother .
The juncture was favorable .
He began as you begin .
It need not be said that Planchet in resuming his former functions resumed also his former humility and was not ashamed to make his breakfast on what was left by D ’ Artagnan .
And here , madame , I must add another word of explanation .
Of what nature ? ” “ Why , you know it is quite impossible to procure a carriage. ” “ Certainly ; and I also know that we have done all that human means afforded to endeavor to get one. ” “ Now , then , in this difficulty a bright idea has flashed across my brain. ” Franz looked at Albert as though he had not much confidence in the suggestions of his imagination .
He rode up a very quiet street , looking to the right and the left to see if he could catch any vestige of his beautiful Englishwoman , when from the ground floor of a pretty house , which , according to the fashion of the time , had no window toward the street , he saw a face peep out with which he thought he was acquainted .
Edmond did not close his eyes .
“ To be sure ! ” answered Danglars .
_A propos_ , monseigneur , ” continued Tréville , addressing the cardinal , “ Monsieur de Cahusac is quite recovered , is he not ? ” “ Thank you , ” said the cardinal , biting his lips with anger .
Vampa then rushed towards Teresa ; for at ten paces from the dying man her legs had failed her , and she had dropped on her knees , so that the young man feared that the ball that had brought down his enemy , had also wounded his betrothed .
The instant she appeared the door-keeper rose , came to her , and asked her whether she was not the person with whom the procureur had made an appointment ; and on her affirmative answer being given , he conducted her by a private passage to M. de Villefort ’ s office .
Did this proposed breakfast cover some stratagem ?
Then it appeared to him that Monte Cristo smiled , not with the strange and fearful expression which had sometimes revealed to him the secrets of his heart , but with the benevolent kindness of a father for a child .
Stay ! —stay ! —How strange that it should not have occurred to me before !
Should you not have known me again , in spite of my eight-and-forty years of age ? ” “ On the contrary , I do not find you the same person at all. ” “ I understand , ” cried Athos , with a gentle blush .
He rose on the entrance of the coadjutor , and at that moment ten o ’ clock struck .
The best !
“ How many shots ? ” “ A hundred. ” “ That ’ s quite as many as we shall want .
They were assembled in council at the residence of Athos , which always indicated an event of some gravity .
In an hour hence I shall be with the Comte de la Fere , and to-morrow your majesty shall have a definite reply. ” The queen tendered her hand to Lord de Winter , who , kissing it respectfully , went out and traversed alone and unconducted those large , dark and deserted apartments , brushing away tears which , blase as he was by fifty years spent as a courtier , he could not withhold at the spectacle of royal distress so dignified , yet so intense .
Alarmed by the cries and gestures of the boatmen , my horse sprang into the water .
If the Musketeers did not appear , things were to go on as had been agreed ; Mme .
The four young men heard the news a quarter of an hour after M. de Tréville , for they were the first to whom he communicated it .
there ’ s a fellow who will never desert me ! ” “ So long as you are rich !
“ Yes , ” said Noirtier .
Aramis stopped .
I hope he does not bring our breakfast with him. ” “ Oh , no ; our breakfast comes from my father ’ s kitchen .
Well , I will certainly drink to their health with all my heart , but I will not drink alone. ” And D ’ Artagnan went among those Guardsmen with whom he had formed greater intimacy than with the others , to invite them to enjoy with him this present of delicious Anjou wine which had been sent him from Villeroy .
The circumstances that had hastened the return of D ’ Artagnan to Paris were as follows : One evening , when Mazarin , according to custom , went to visit the queen , in passing the guard-chamber he heard loud voices ; wishing to know on what topic the soldiers were conversing , he approached with his wonted wolf-like step , pushed open the door and put his head close to the chink .
Yes , sir. ” “ A whole bottle , if you will drink my health. ” “ Willingly , ” answered the soldier .
She then returned to her room , calling for help as loudly as she could , when suddenly her window , which was twenty feet from the ground , was opened , a young peasant jumped into the chamber , seized her in his arms , and with superhuman skill and strength conveyed her to the turf of the grass-plot , where she fainted .
D ’ Artagnan was conqueror—without much effort , it must be confessed , for only one of the officers was armed , and even he defended himself for form ’ s sake .
My wife has perhaps requested permission of Monsieur Athos to go into the cellar to satisfy these gentlemen ; and he , as usual , has refused .
There is a struggle in nature against this divine substance , —in nature which is not made for joy and clings to pain .
Dantès had been flung into the sea , and was dragged into its depths by a thirty-six-pound shot tied to his feet .
My only fear is the chance of Dantès being released .
“ It was about four o ’ clock in the afternoon , and although the day was brilliant out-of-doors , we were enveloped in the gloomy darkness of the cavern .
Motionless , with her burning and fixed glances , in her solitary apartment , how well the outbursts of passion which at times escape from the depths of her chest with her respiration , accompany the sound of the surf which rises , growls , roars , and breaks itself like an eternal and powerless despair against the rocks on which is built this dark and lofty castle !
What more need be said ?
“ Well ! ” cried the three Musketeers all together , on seeing D ’ Artagnan enter with his brow covered with perspiration and his countenance upset with anger .
I can ’ t see !
What is there astonishing in that ? ” “ And you had no other object in coming to England but to see me ? ” “ No. ” “ So it was for me alone you have taken the trouble to cross the Channel ? ” “ For you alone. ” “ The deuce !
“ Morrel , ” said he , “ do not forget what you have just seen. ” “ The only chance for Albert ’ s safety , then , will arise from your emotion. ” “ I suffer from emotion ? ” said Monte Cristo .
“ Do you know what they are saying here ? ” “ No , your eminence. ” “ Well , they say that Monsieur de Beaufort is going to escape from Vincennes , if he has not done so already. ” The officer ’ s face expressed complete stupefaction .
59. ” “ Quick , quick ! ” said Caderousse , “ or I shall be unable to sign it. ” Monte Cristo gave the pen to Caderousse , who collected all his strength , signed it , and fell back on his bed , saying : “ You will relate all the rest , reverend sir ; you will say he calls himself Andrea Cavalcanti .
Let her , then , exhaust her vengeance on me alone ! ” “ My dear friend , of what consequence is it if she kills me ? ” said Athos .
“ Come , ” said Madame Danglars , “ leave music and compliments , and let us go and take tea. ” “ Come , Louise , ” said Mademoiselle Danglars to her friend .
“ Your blessing , your holiness , before you go , I beseech you ! ” he cried .
Leave him to build up the future for you , and I venture to say you will confide it to safe hands. ” “ Oh , ” replied the wretched woman , mournfully shaking her head , “ the prosperity of which you speak , and which , from the bottom of my heart , I pray God in his mercy to grant him , I can never enjoy .
Monte Cristo ran down the steps , and advancing towards the spot designated beheld Villefort , encircled by his servants , with a spade in his hand , and digging the earth with fury .
Then I must go to the Rue St. Honoré in order to purchase some rouge for Madame de Chevreuse .
He turned towards his wife .
It is something to be well received .
All day Dantès walked up and down his cell .
“ In a month you will find on the table , at which we shall be then sitting , good pistols and a delicious draught ; but , on the other hand , you must promise me not to attempt your life before that time. ” “ Oh , I also swear it ! ” Monte Cristo drew the young man towards him , and pressed him for some time to his heart .
With five thousand you can buy a pretty little house with two acres of land ; the remaining twenty thousand will bring you in a thousand francs a year. ” “ A garden with two acres of land ! ” “ And a thousand francs a year. ” “ Oh , heavens ! ” “ Come , take them , ” and Monte Cristo forced the bank-notes into his hand .
Louvieres recognized him and bowed .
“ Sir , ” said Valentine , “ I will do all I can to live , for there are two beings who love me and will die if I die—my grandfather and Maximilian. ” “ I will watch over them as I have over you. ” “ Well , sir , do as you will with me ; ” and then she added , in a low voice , “ oh , heavens , what will befall me ? ” “ Whatever may happen , Valentine , do not be alarmed ; though you suffer ; though you lose sight , hearing , consciousness , fear nothing ; though you should awake and be ignorant where you are , still do not fear ; even though you should find yourself in a sepulchral vault or coffin .
But by degrees she overcame the outbursts of her mad passion ; and nervous tremblings which agitated her frame disappeared , and she remained folded within herself like a fatigued serpent in repose .
Since none but the dead pass freely from this dungeon , let me take the place of the dead ! ” Without giving himself time to reconsider his decision , and , indeed , that he might not allow his thoughts to be distracted from his desperate resolution , he bent over the appalling shroud , opened it with the knife which Faria had made , drew the corpse from the sack , and bore it along the tunnel to his own chamber , laid it on his couch , tied around its head the rag he wore at night around his own , covered it with his counterpane , once again kissed the ice-cold brow , and tried vainly to close the resisting eyes , which glared horribly , turned the head towards the wall , so that the jailer might , when he brought the evening meal , believe that he was asleep , as was his frequent custom ; entered the tunnel again , drew the bed against the wall , returned to the other cell , took from the hiding-place the needle and thread , flung off his rags , that they might feel only naked flesh beneath the coarse canvas , and getting inside the sack , placed himself in the posture in which the dead body had been laid , and sewed up the mouth of the sack from the inside .
As for you , illustrious descendant of William Tell , you will straightway get together your clothes which are in my room and which annoy me , and go out quickly to another lodging. ” The Swiss began to laugh boisterously .
The English , who require , above everything , good living in order to be good soldiers , only eating salt meat and bad biscuit , had many invalids in their camp .
You must have received a false report , or you have gone mad. ” “ Alas , sire , it is but too true ! ” Louis made a gesture of indescribable anger and alarm , and then drew himself up as if this sudden blow had struck him at the same moment in heart and countenance .
God forbid !
Many people have been assassinated in a tumult , but even criminals have rarely been insulted during trial .
He buried his brow in his hands and thought of the world , so beautiful when one is about to leave it ; of the caresses of children , so pleasing and so sweet , especially when one is parting from his children never to see them again ; then of his wife , the noble and courageous woman who had sustained him to the last moment .
Noble Natures never lose Courage , nor good Stomachs their Appetites .
The proposition had been made , and received with enthusiasm , when fortunately eleven o ’ clock struck .
Upon his return to the hotel , Franz found Albert in his dressing-gown and slippers , listlessly extended on a sofa , smoking a cigar .
“ There are several branches of the D ’ Artagnans at Tarbes and in its environs , ” said the cardinal ; “ to which do you belong ? ” “ I am the son of him who served in the Religious Wars under the great King Henry , the father of his gracious Majesty. ” “ That is well .
D ’ Artagnan went from Captain Groslow to Colonel Harrison and from Colonel Harrison to his friends .
He therefore allowed Valentine to go into the garden , sent away Barrois , and after having seated himself at his father ’ s right hand , while Madame de Villefort placed herself on the left , he addressed him thus : “ I trust you will not be displeased , sir , that Valentine has not come with us , or that I dismissed Barrois , for our conference will be one which could not with propriety be carried on in the presence of either .
Are you too proud to accept it , young gentleman ? ” “ No , sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and I will guard it so carefully that I will be sworn it shall arrive at its address , and woe be to him who shall attempt to take it from me ! ” M. de Tréville smiled at this flourish ; and leaving his young man compatriot in the embrasure of the window , where they had talked together , he seated himself at a table in order to write the promised letter of recommendation .
What were you saying to this youngster ? ” “ My lord , ” replied Guitant , “ I was observing that we live in troublous times and that to-day ’ s events are very like those in the days of the Ligue , of which I heard so much in my youth .
I shall be excused for leaving at daybreak , for I was ashamed. ” He then drew the pin from his cravat and placed it on the paper .
“ Let all be forgotten as a sorrowful dream , ” said Beauchamp ; “ let it vanish as the last sparks from the blackened paper , and disappear as the smoke from those silent ashes. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said Albert , “ and may there remain only the eternal friendship which I promised to my deliverer , which shall be transmitted to our children ’ s children , and shall always remind me that I owe my life and the honor of my name to you , —for had this been known , oh , Beauchamp , I should have destroyed myself ; or , —no , my poor mother !
The valet opened the door , and Villefort heard someone speak his name .
He will be delivered to the parliament , members of which can , of course , be bought , but even Monsieur de Mazarin is not rich enough to buy the whole body. ” “ I think , ” returned Anne of Austria , fixing upon him a glance , which in any woman ’ s face would have expressed disdain , but in a queen ’ s , spread terror to those she looked upon , “ nay , I perceive you dare to threaten the mother of your sovereign. ” “ Madame , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ I threaten simply and solely because I am obliged to do so .
Poor king !
“ M .
Aramis , you certainly are full of wisdom ! ” The young men burst into a laugh , and as may be supposed , the affair had no other sequel .
“ Does anyone know anything of a Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ He comes possibly from the Holy Land , and one of his ancestors possessed Calvary , as the Mortemarts did the Dead Sea. ” “ I think I can assist your researches , ” said Maximilian .
He quickly saw two heads appear above an abandoned work within thirty paces of him ; they were the heads of the two soldiers .
you really vilify me ! ” cried Olivain .
He was not bound , nor had they made any attempt to handcuff him ; this seemed a good augury .
The next day Kitty went to see the young man again , and related to him all that had passed on the preceding evening .
Here are five francs for his trouble. ” “ Indeed , ” said Louise , “ I admire you , and I could almost say respect you. ” The laundress looked on in astonishment , but as she had been promised twenty louis , she made no remark .
neither gold nor rank ? ” “ You have given me all you can give me , and from to-day your debt is paid. ” And Mordaunt darted out of the general ’ s tent , his heart beating and his eyes sparkling with joy .
Toward six o ’ clock M. de Tréville announced that it was time to go to the Louvre ; but as the hour of audience granted by his Majesty was past , instead of claiming the _entrée_ by the back stairs , he placed himself with the four young men in the antechamber .
“ Am I mistaken , then ? ” said Monte Cristo .
30233m “ Good ! ” said Caderousse .
Every one withdrew .
“ You have conspired with your wife , with Madame de Chevreuse , and with my Lord Duke of Buckingham. ” “ Indeed , monseigneur , ” responded the mercer , “ I have heard her pronounce all those names. ” “ And on what occasion ? ” “ She said that the Cardinal de Richelieu had drawn the Duke of Buckingham to Paris to ruin him and to ruin the queen. ” “ She said that ? ” cried the cardinal , with violence .
The scaffold will be ready by to-morrow , but the headsman will be wanting and they will put it off till the day after to-morrow. ” “ What then ? ” said the king .
You will find my will in the secretaire in my bedroom. ” The young man remained standing and motionless , having but the force of will and not the power of execution .
I live , as it were , between two graves .
Monte Cristo was not deceived .
Were the late Cardinal Richelieu alive he would tell you a certain story of the Bastion Saint Gervais , which we four , with our four lackeys and twelve dead men , held out against a whole army. ” “ Such feats , sir , are done once—and never repeated. ” “ However , nowadays there ’ s no need of so much heroism .
She had almost all the honors of the quadrille , and if she were envious of the Count of San-Felice ’ s daughter , we will not undertake to say that Carmela was not jealous of her .
Please pay to my order , from the fund deposited by me , the sum of a million , and charge the same to my account .
But as I can not , and you will not , quit this place , it becomes necessary to fill up the excavation beneath the soldier ’ s gallery ; he might , by chance , hear the hollow sound of his footsteps , and call the attention of his officer to the circumstance .
to dinner ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
And then so short a time had elapsed since the death of poor Valentine , and the gloom which overshadowed the house was so recent , that no one wondered to see the father so absorbed in his professional duties , which were the only means he had of dissipating his grief .
The officers perceived that they had not to deal with a gentleman , and they treated him like a very peasant .
Yes , yes ; but now what did I do with that letter ? ” D ’ Artagnan thought a moment and then went to the wardrobe in which hung his old clothes .
With one spring he flew from the chamber of Milady into that of the maid , and quick as lightning , he slammed to the door , and placed all his weight against it , while Kitty pushed the bolts .
“ The Marquis of Saint-Méran .
Do you know what torture is ?
“ Sir , ” said De Winter , “ I thought I had already made you aware that I am weary of this persecution ; withdraw , then , or I shall call and have you turned out as you were in London .
What do I say ?
You have some in the house , have you not ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Send for some oil of turpentine and tartar emetic. ” Villefort immediately despatched a messenger .
The servant conducted him by the Rue des Petits Champs and turning to the left entered the little garden gate leading into the Rue Richelieu ; then they gained the private staircase and D ’ Artagnan was ushered into the oratory .
But let us make haste , sir ; with the enemies you have to do with there is no time to be lost. ” “ Oh , this time , doctor , you shall not have to reproach me with weakness .
then you are going with me ? ” “ I will accompany you a portion of the way , ” said Athos .
He then descended , but it was only when he felt his foot touch the ground that he was satisfied of his safety .
“ You know the interest we both take in this poor little Madame Bonacieux .
“ The devil !
M. de Morcerf went out about half an hour ago ; the opportunity is favorable to avoid an explanation. ” “ I am ready , my son , ” said Mercédès .
He therefore promised Albert that he would content himself the morrow with witnessing the Carnival from the windows of the Rospoli Palace .
When he opened his eyes Dantès found himself on the deck of the tartan .
I , as a philosopher , should like a little country-house , a cottage down there under the trees , without so many free-stones over my poor body .
Come , let us put aside all rancor and talk pleasantly. ” “ There ’ s nothing I wish more , ” replied Mazarin .
Besides , those who must be considered the leaders of the enterprise had quit the group and were making their way toward the hôtel of M. de Tréville , who was waiting for them , already informed of this fresh disturbance .
And in my past life they might find something far more grave than the selling of smuggled cigars , or barrels of brandy without a permit .
“ You will enter by the Rue Neuve Sainte Catherine ; under the second lamp on the right you will find your adversary .
But in France they are considered in very bad taste ; there are gendarmes who occupy themselves with such affairs , judges who condemn , and scaffolds which avenge. ” Bertuccio clasped his hands , and as , in all these evolutions , he did not let fall the lantern , the light showed his pale and altered countenance .
There seems to be only one thing to do , which is , to send our names to Her Majesty the Queen of England , and if she engages to answer for us I presume we shall be allowed to enter. ” On hearing these words the shortest of the other three men seemed more attentive than ever to what was going on , wrapping his cloak around him more carefully than before .
We have a king ten years old , who doesn ’ t yet know what he wants ; we have a queen blinded by a belated passion ; we have a minister who governs France as he would govern a great farm—that is to say , intent only on turning out all the gold he can by the exercise of Italian cunning and invention ; we have princes who set up a personal and egotistic opposition , who will draw from Mazarin ’ s hands only a few ingots of gold or some shreds of power granted as bribes .
At each previous visit he had made to Rome , he had solicited and obtained the same favor ; and incited as much by a religious feeling as by gratitude , he was unwilling to quit the capital of the Christian world without laying his respectful homage at the feet of one of St. Peter ’ s successors who has set the rare example of all the virtues .
Mazarin took the letter and read it thus : “ Mr .
you ’ ve killed him , I think. ” “ No , wounded his horse only. ” “ What would you have , my dear fellow ?
The first thing he saw was the old man sitting in his armchair in his usual place , but his eyes expressed alarm , which was confirmed by the pallor which overspread his features .
“ ‘ Not another step , ’ he said , ‘ or you are a dead man. ’ “ ‘ What , then , ’ said Vampa , raising his hand with a gesture of disdain , while Teresa , no longer able to restrain her alarm , clung closely to him , ‘ do wolves rend each other ? ’ “ ‘ Who are you ? ’ inquired the sentinel .
Athos made no reply .
and why ? ” asked the old man .
Milady rushed to the door and opened it .
“ Why does not he go about his business ? ” “ Stupid fellow yourself ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , stooping in his turn on the neck of his horse , and answering on his side through the carriage window .
Here Guitant spoke to one of the subalterns , asking how matters were progressing .
“ Listen , Beauchamp !
“ Ah , ha , ” said the shipowner , “ I am not in the least surprised , for she has been to me three times , inquiring if there were any news of the _Pharaon_ .
“ Oh , no , dear count ! ” cried Aramis , “ is it not a warlike encounter that we are going to ? ” “ What do you mean , Aramis ? ” “ That the Place Royale is the termination to the main road to Vendomois , and nothing else. ” “ What !
“ Yes , if you really wish it , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and even with great pleasure , I confess ; the journey has given me a devil of an appetite. ” “ Ah , my poor friend ! ” said Aramis , “ you will find meagre fare ; you were not expected. ” “ Am I then threatened with the omelet of Crevecoeur ? ” “ Oh , let us hope , ” said Aramis , “ that with the help of God and of Bazin we shall find something better than that in the larder of the worthy Jesuit fathers .
Kitty had been accused of negligence and severely scolded .
How is it that I have never met you at his house ? ” “ I am no acquaintance of M. de Villefort ’ s , ” answered Morrel , “ but I was of Madame de Saint-Méran. ” Albert came up to them at this moment with Franz .
The falsehood would then lie at my door , and as I am not a gentleman , I may be allowed to lie. ” “ Be of good heart , Planchet , you shall preserve your reputation as a veracious man .
“ You wish to see me , and you come to England .
( “ Porthos , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan , “ look well at that priest. ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ I see him .
The very anticipations of delight to be enjoyed in his forthcoming visits—the bright , pure gleam of heavenly happiness it diffused over the almost deadly warfare in which he had voluntarily engaged , illumined his whole countenance with a look of ineffable joy and calmness , as , immediately after Villefort ’ s departure , his thoughts flew back to the cheering prospect before him , of tasting , at least , a brief respite from the fierce and stormy passions of his mind .
Edmond inserted his lever in the ring and exerted all his strength ; the flag-stone yielded , and disclosed steps that descended until they were lost in the obscurity of a subterraneous grotto .
Well , for my part , I , a bloodthirsty ruffian , who can go and stand close to a scaffold , in order to have a better view of the king ’ s execution—I remain. ” Athos turned pale .
“ Yes , Milady , ” replied Athos ; “ the Comte de la Fère in person , who comes expressly from the other world to have the pleasure of paying you a visit .
He did not wait long , for in five minutes the queen entered in full gala costume .
The Frenchman asked for a rendezvous ; Teresa gave him one—only , instead of Teresa , it was Beppo who was on the steps of the church of San Giacomo. ” “ What ! ” exclaimed Franz , “ the peasant girl who snatched his _mocoletto_ from him—— ” “ Was a lad of fifteen , ” replied Peppino .
“ Perhaps they are penitent and preparing to march. ” “ If they are penitent , ” said Athos , “ let them follow us. ” “ Well ! ” said the king , “ what shall we do ? ” “ Let us examine the enemy ’ s army. ” At the same instant the eyes of the little group were fixed on the same line which at daybreak they had mistaken for fog and which the morning sun now plainly showed was an army in order of battle .
“ Oh , ” cried the inspector , “ who can live here ? ” “ A most dangerous conspirator , a man we are ordered to keep the most strict watch over , as he is daring and resolute. ” “ He is alone ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ How long has he been there ? ” “ Nearly a year. ” “ Was he placed here when he first arrived ? ” “ No ; not until he attempted to kill the turnkey , who took his food to him. ” “ To kill the turnkey ? ” “ Yes , the very one who is lighting us .
Oh , shall I then , again become a fatalist , whom fourteen years of despair and ten of hope had rendered a believer in Providence ?
YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION , THE TRADEMARK OWNER , AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL , DIRECT , INDIRECT , CONSEQUENTIAL , PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE .
He gallantly offered the right-hand seat to Beppo , and sat by him .
But the chevalier was himself at heart a Frondist and would hear nothing said of compensation .
The cardinal , as it appears , pursues her and persecutes her more than ever .
Mazarin looked at her , and whilst she deemed herself alone and freed from the world of enemies who sought to spy into her secret thoughts , he read her thoughts in her countenance , as one sees in a transparent lake clouds pass—reflections , like thoughts , of the heavens .
Toxicology It was really the Count of Monte Cristo who had just arrived at Madame de Villefort ’ s for the purpose of returning the procureur ’ s visit , and at his name , as may be easily imagined , the whole house was in confusion .
Really , if the house had not belonged to the father-in-law of the procureur , one might have thought it some accursed place where a horrible crime had been committed. ” Villefort , who had hitherto not tasted the three or four glasses of rare wine which were placed before him , here took one , and drank it off .
The voice and gesture of the man who followed Danglars ordered him to do the same .
‘ Ah , my worthy gentlemen , ’ cried I , ‘ what do you want ? ’ ‘ You must have a ladder ? ’ said he who appeared to be the leader of the party .
“ This , ” he said to Planchet , “ must be the archbishop ’ s chateau , the abode of the fair Madame de Longueville ; but the convent , where is that ? ” “ The convent , your honor , is at the other end of the village ; I know it well. ” “ Well , then , Planchet , gallop up to it whilst I tighten my horse ’ s girth , and come back and tell me if there is a light in any of the Jesuits ’ windows. ” In about five minutes Planchet returned .
Au revoir , not farewell .
Blaisois obeyed .
It will suffice , then , to tell them that at the moment at which , discouraged by so many fruitless investigations , we were about to abandon our search , we at length found , guided by the counsels of our illustrious friend Paulin Paris , a manuscript in folio , endorsed 4772 or 4773 , we do not recollect which , having for title , “ Memoirs of the Comte de la Fère , Touching Some Events Which Passed in France Toward the End of the Reign of King Louis XIII .
In this passage he proposed to drive a level as they do in mines ; this level would bring the two prisoners immediately beneath the gallery where the sentry kept watch ; once there , a large excavation would be made , and one of the flag-stones with which the gallery was paved be so completely loosened that at the desired moment it would give way beneath the feet of the soldier , who , stunned by his fall , would be immediately bound and gagged by Dantès before he had power to offer any resistance .
The footman opened the door and announced Monsieur le Comte de la Fere .
D ’ Artagnan took off his hat , and could not be persuaded to make use of his cloak .
But , since our resolution is formed , let us act promptly .
Milady was wrong in fearing that Mme .
On a table in the next room were lighted candles , cards , two dice-boxes , and dice .
He fell back , almost fainting , in his chair .
You seem to forget the orders I received to conduct you safe and sound to his highness the prince !
“ Yes , you are right ; I am but a poor friend to you .
Monte Cristo , on stepping into the house , heard a sigh that was almost a deep sob ; he looked in the direction whence it came , and there under an arbor of Virginia jessamine,29 with its thick foliage and beautiful long purple flowers , he saw Mercédès seated , with her head bowed , and weeping bitterly .
Unhappy he , who , on the brink of misfortune , broods over ideas like these !
I adopt all customs , speak all languages .
“ That head has never conspired , ” murmured he , “ but it matters not ; we will see. ” “ You are accused of high treason , ” said the cardinal , slowly .
You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works , reports , performances and research .
made Tréville the captain of his Musketeers , who were to Louis XIII .
Dantès stood mute and motionless before this majestic spectacle , as if he now beheld it for the first time ; and indeed since his captivity in the Château d ’ If he had forgotten that such scenes were ever to be witnessed .
“ Do you know that I was plunged during a day and night in a dungeon of the Bastille ? ” “ Oh , a day and night soon pass away .
D ’ Artagnan felt his horse giving way under him and with his wonderful agility threw himself to one side .
“ I am now quite at your service , gentlemen , ” said he .
“ Yes , my lord , ” said the marshal , “ you have divined all that was possible to human genius. ” “ Recall Le Plessis , Bellievre , Villequier and D ’ Erlac , ” said the prince , “ recall all the troops that are on this side of the Lys .
apropos , my lord !
“ Be so good as to mention this name to his eminence and to bring me word whether he will receive me—yes or no. ” Saying which , he resumed the proud and sombre bearing peculiar at that time to Puritans .
Since he had been taken he had not uttered a word , so that it was not known to what country he belonged .
She was beautiful , but her beauty was of too marked and decided a character to please a fastidious taste ; her hair was raven black , but its natural waves seemed somewhat rebellious ; her eyes , of the same color as her hair , were surmounted by well-arched brows , whose great defect , however , consisted in an almost habitual frown , while her whole physiognomy wore that expression of firmness and decision so little in accordance with the gentler attributes of her sex—her nose was precisely what a sculptor would have chosen for a chiselled Juno .
Monte Cristo approached him , and said in a low voice , with an expression almost humble : “ Sir , you have indeed lost a son ; but—— ” Villefort interrupted him ; he had neither listened nor heard .
If you make a single step to find her you are lost. ’ “ That ’ s pretty positive , ” continued D ’ Artagnan ; “ but after all , it is but a menace. ” “ Yes ; but that menace terrifies me .
And therefore my friends will conduct monsieur le cardinal neither to De Beaufort , nor to De Bouillon , nor to the coadjutor , nor to D ’ Elbeuf .
“ Alas , madame , ” said the procureur with his imperturbable calmness of manner , “ I consider those alone misfortunes which are irreparable. ” “ And do you suppose this will be forgotten ? ” “ Everything will be forgotten , madame , ” said Villefort .
That has weakened my purse. ” “ And I , ” said Aramis , “ imagined that I had given almost my last sou to the church of Montdidier and the Jesuits of Amiens , with whom I had made engagements which I ought to have kept .
was killed. ” “ But what has this vision of Henry IV .
The animal uttered a cry during the transit , but , arrived at its destination , it crouched behind the cushions , and stupefied at such unusual treatment remained silent and motionless .
“ It seems to me , ” said Danglars , in his coarse tone , ill-concealed by a forced smile , “ that you have already got horses enough. ” Madame Danglars seldom allowed remarks of this kind to pass unnoticed , but , to the surprise of the young people , she pretended not to hear it , and said nothing .
The House of Morrel & Son Anyone who had quitted Marseilles a few years previously , well acquainted with the interior of Morrel ’ s warehouse , and had returned at this date , would have found a great change .
He produced the ring , his mark of authority , with which Ali Pasha generally sealed his letters , and which the latter had given him , that he might , on his return at any hour of the day or night , gain access to the presence , even in the harem .
I say your troops , for I presume that you gentlemen are Frondeurs ? ” “ Yes , almost , ” said Aramis .
The person who opened it must have taken me for a madman , for I rushed at once to the stable .
You remind me of my fright !
Still , the presence of Monte Cristo at such an hour , his mysterious , fanciful , and extraordinary entrance into her room through the wall , might well seem impossibilities to her shattered reason .
But as the lackey who goes may make us believe he has been to London and may stop at Châtellerault , let us give him only half the sum promised him , with the letter , with an agreement that he shall have the other half in exchange for the reply .
Have you provided yourself with money ?
Besides , you are right in another respect , which is in thinking that if we were to meddle in politics there could not be a better time than the present. ” “ How can you know that ?
When he thought the matter over , he could by no means account for this generous conduct on the part of Thomson & French towards him ; and could only attribute it to some such selfish argument as this : “ We had better help a man who owes us nearly 300,000 francs , and have those 300,000 francs at the end of three months than hasten his ruin , and get only six or eight per cent of our money back again. ” Unfortunately , whether through envy or stupidity , all Morrel ’ s correspondents did not take this view ; and some even came to a contrary decision .
It is in poor taste to make a display of a challenge .
But this time Milady lent a more attentive ear than the first , and she heard their steps die away in the distance of the corridor .
On his right hand and his left were two footmen , with the seams of their dresses laced .
I can never forgive myself ! ” “ Monsieur , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ I command you to speak. ” “ Well , sire , the usurper left Elba on the 26th February , and landed on the 1st of March. ” “ And where ?
I know these lovers .
The luck had turned , and Groslow , having won some hundred pistoles , was in the merriest possible humor .
La Ramee cast an inquiring look around him and observing the same signs of antipathy between the prisoner and his guardian he smiled in token of his inward satisfaction .
When it arrived there , four guards and a police officer , who accompanied it , mounted into the heavy machine and closed the shutters ; then through an opening cautiously made , the policeman began to watch the length of the Rue Cocatrix , as if he was waiting for some one .
So , my dear host , be not uneasy , and continue to take all the care of him that his situation requires. ” “ Monsieur has promised me not to open his mouth about the procurator ’ s wife , and not to say a word of the wound ? ” “ That ’ s agreed ; you have my word. ” “ Oh , he would kill me ! ” “ Don ’ t be afraid ; he is not so much of a devil as he appears. ” Saying these words , D ’ Artagnan went upstairs , leaving his host a little better satisfied with respect to two things in which he appeared to be very much interested—his debt and his life .
“ Oh , pray , for mercy ’ s sake , don ’ t fly from me .
She is amiable and well-behaved. ” “ What is her name ? ” “ She was sent to me by someone of high rank , under the name of Kitty .
Four men , disguised as workmen , were to get the king out of prison and take him to Greenwich , where a vessel was waiting. ” “ And knowing all that , your honor remained here , far from the city , tranquil and inactive. ” “ Tranquil , yes , ” replied Cromwell .
I have an infernal spirit .
His only fear was that Milady would recognize in him the man of Meung and of Dover .
“ You know that my means are limited , and that I am what would be designated a man of moderate pretensions .
“ One moment—I beg—for here are the Chevalier d ’ Herblay and the Comte de la Fere , just arrived from London , and they can give you , as eye-witnesses , such details as you can convey to the queen , my royal sister .
At his door he perceived a figure in the shadow that seemed to wait for him .
“ In the name of heaven , run , call !
We have before stated that all the servants had fled .
Bonacieux , and a convent was not impregnable .
Last February you were the first who told me of the Haitian funds .
“ What , then , are you ? ” “ I am about to tell you , wretched man. ” “ Oh , mon Dieu ! ” “ I am John Francis de Winter. ” “ I do not know you , ” said the executioner .
If a thunderbolt had fallen at the banker ’ s feet , he could not have experienced greater terror .
Alas !
You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works , reports , performances and research .
He decided , then , to tell all .
I can not reconcile myself to this idea—it would madden me .
Franz had , as yet , found nothing to say ; he had come to no determination , and as nothing in the count ’ s manner manifested the wish that he should recognize him , he did not know whether to make any allusion to the past , or wait until he had more proof ; besides , although sure it was he who had been in the box the previous evening , he could not be equally positive that this was the man he had seen at the Colosseum .
“ Who are you , sir , ” asked she , “ who has the kindness to trouble yourself so particularly on my account ? ” “ You may perceive , madame , by my uniform , that I am an officer in the English navy , ” replied the young man .
“ I repeat that I am determined to have the announcement of yesterday contradicted .
Out of all the numerous clerks that used to fill the deserted corridor and the empty office , but two remained .
Section 2 .
What would you not have accomplished if you had been free ? ” “ Possibly nothing at all ; the overflow of my brain would probably , in a state of freedom , have evaporated in a thousand follies ; misfortune is needed to bring to light the treasures of the human intellect .
There was a moment ’ s silence .
Still confidence was not restored to all minds , and the general opinion was that the complete ruin of the unfortunate shipowner had been postponed only until the end of the month .
My affianced husband returned .
The mourning in her heart forbade her assuming this simple ornament , though she had not yet had time to put on the outward semblance of woe .
I demand the suppression of the thesis. ” “ Since then , ” continued Aramis , “ I have lived very agreeably .
I have almost killed myself by my needless haste .
When a thing suited him he paid the price demanded , without thinking to ask for any abatement .
“ Don ’ t you see them ? ” cried Friquet , “ don ’ t you see ?
Do these belong to the cardinal ?
Athos and Aramis walked down toward the port .
“ For , ” added he , “ the future can not fail to mend ; I inevitably look for better times .
“ You here ? ” said Château-Renaud , passing his arms through the young captain ’ s ; “ are you a friend of Villefort ’ s ?
You , madame , have only sought to increase your own , and I am convinced that you have succeeded .
God knows how much I love , revere you. ” “ See that you forget nothing , ” said Athos , appearing to look about him , that he might hide his emotion .
you know that I don ’ t like it .
The two interlocutors thus separated , taking opposite directions , at full gallop .
To the sword , sir !
Then our Gascon , extending his arms , drew to him the heads of his three friends till they almost touched one another .
He alone could have transmitted to Lord de Winter all these frightful secrets which he has discovered , one after another , by a train of fatalities .
As usual , Valentine strolled for a short time among her flowers , but without gathering them .
“ Get me out of this , in Heaven ’ s name ! ” he said , “ or I shall leave my carcass here and those of all my men. ” A great tumult arose , in the midst of which even the noise of thunder could not have been heard .
D ’ Artagnan started .
Then they knelt on each side of the grave , and said the prayers of the dead .
Everyone , from the highest to the lowest degree , has his place on the social ladder , and is beset by stormy passions and conflicting interests , as in Descartes ’ theory of pressure and impulsion .
The two soldiers who had brought him in took him , each by one arm , and led him toward the door , whilst the prince , turning to Marshal de Grammont , seemed to have already forgotten the order he had given .
A square table , covered with books and papers , upon which was unrolled an immense plan of the city of La Rochelle , occupied the center of the room .
“ Jesus Dieu ! ” he cried ; “ one of them is trembling with fever , having failed to adapt himself to this charming country of yours , and the other is a knight of Malta , as timid as a young girl ; and for greater security we have taken from them even their penknives and pocket scissors. ” “ Well , then , ” said Groslow , “ bring them with you. ” “ But really—— ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ I did announce myself , in truth , as coming on the part of the Marechal de Grammont ; but being wounded in the right arm he was unable to write and therefore the Count de Guiche acted as his secretary. ” “ There has been fighting , then ? ” asked the queen , motioning to Raoul to rise .
I felt myself fall to the ground , my mother had fainted. ” Haydée ’ s arms fell by her side , and she uttered a deep groan , at the same time looking towards the count as if to ask if he were satisfied with her obedience to his commands .
“ Ah , ah ! ” said he , “ what does this mean ? ” “ This is the gentleman I am going to fight with , ” said Athos , pointing to D ’ Artagnan with his hand and saluting him with the same gesture .
Would you like to become rich , or at least independent ?
“ The note is changed .
Four men surrounded him , besides the postilion .
“ Both. ” Raoul went out , and when Athos heard his young , joyous voice calling to Grimaud and Olivain , he sighed .
“ What are you doing ? ” “ You have wounded me to the heart. ” “ Never mind it , for I see you once more , ” said the old man ; “ and now it ’ s all over—everything is all right again. ” 0035m “ Yes , here I am , ” said the young man , “ with a promising future and a little money .
he knew nothing .
The proofs were certainly not convincing , since they rested upon a few words written by an escaped galley-slave on his death-bed , and who might have been actuated by hatred or revenge in accusing his companion .
And you will tell him I will publish the report of Bois-Robert and the Marquis de Beautru , upon the interview which the duke had at the residence of Madame the Constable with the queen on the evening Madame the Constable gave a masquerade .
Once out of Auteuil , Andrea looked around , in order to assure himself that he could neither be seen nor heard , and then , stopping the horse and crossing his arms before the man , he asked : “ Now , tell me why you come to disturb my tranquillity ? ” “ Let me ask you why you deceived me ? ” “ How have I deceived you ? ” “ ‘ How , ’ do you ask ?
As they left Paris , an equipage with four horses , at full speed , was seen to draw up suddenly ; it contained Monte Cristo .
D ’ Artagnan inquired for the confidential valet of the duke , who , having accompanied him in all his voyages , spoke French perfectly well ; he told him that he came from Paris on an affair of life and death , and that he must speak with his master instantly .
The devil it does ! ” said La Ramee , scratching his head ; “ you are in the wrong to tell me that , my lord .
“ It is you who are not a woman , ” muttered Mazarin .
‘ Willingly , my young cavalier , ’ said the priest , ‘ if you will be content with the remains of my supper and with half my chamber. ’ “ The two travelers consulted for a moment .
I think I can see him now , mounted upon his superb animal and seated in his handsome saddle .
Albert listened with the most profound attention .
“ In what a tone you speak ! ” cried Valentine .
Noirtier , playing with revolutions—M .
“ You are certainly treating your cousin very handsomely ! ” The poor fowl was thin , and covered with one of those thick , bristly skins through which the teeth can not penetrate with all their efforts .
“ Tell me his name. ” “ Edmond Dantès. ” Villefort would probably have rather stood opposite the muzzle of a pistol at five-and-twenty paces than have heard this name spoken ; but he did not blanch .
“ Very droll , ” he muttered , “ very droll indeed , ” and he again began to carve the fowl , when Peppino stopped the baron ’ s right hand with his left , and held out his other hand .
If the poor abbé had not been in such a hurry , he might have had his requiem. ” “ Pooh , pooh ; ” said the doctor , with the impiety usual in persons of his profession ; “ he is a churchman .
The second act passed away during one continued buzz of voices—one deep whisper—intimating that some great and universally interesting event had occurred ; all eyes , all thoughts , were occupied with the young and beautiful woman , whose gorgeous apparel and splendid jewels made a most extraordinary spectacle .
Bonacieux had declared to him , by all the gods , that she did not know Aramis ; and a quarter of an hour after having made this assertion , he found her hanging on the arm of Aramis .
“ My faith , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it appears that I was more drunk than you , since I remember nothing of the kind. ” Athos did not trust this reply , and he resumed ; “ you can not have failed to remark , my dear friend , that everyone has his particular kind of drunkenness , sad or gay .
Chapter 83 .
“ Are you not going to-morrow morning at six o ’ clock , Louis , to bathe at Conflans ?
“ Well , what good wind blows you hither at this hour ? ” said he ; “ have you come to sup with me ?
Let us , therefore , wait patiently for some favorable moment , and when it presents itself , profit by it. ” “ Ah , ” said Dantès , “ you might well endure the tedious delay ; you were constantly employed in the task you set yourself , and when weary with toil , you had your hopes to refresh and encourage you. ” “ I assure you , ” replied the old man , “ I did not turn to that source for recreation or support. ” “ What did you do then ? ” “ I wrote or studied. ” “ Were you then permitted the use of pens , ink , and paper ? ” “ Oh , no , ” answered the abbé ; “ I had none but what I made for myself. ” “ You made paper , pens and ink ? ” “ Yes. ” Dantès gazed with admiration , but he had some difficulty in believing .
“ Pah !
‘ Mercy ! ’ said Caderousse , crossing himself .
“ Am I—am I , then , to sleep on the floor ? ” asked Gaston d ’ Orleans , with a forced smile .
But here it is : you have sentiments , the devil knows what , such as every one can ’ t entertain .
“ Ruined ? ” said she .
Madame Danglars did not see them ; she was engaged in stilling the beatings of her heart , and restraining the tears which were ready to gush forth .
“ It seems like a woman !
The duty will be tolerably long and not very amusing , I know ; but , ” added he , seriously , “ you understand , it is on the king ’ s service. ” “ At your command , lieutenant , ” replied the musketeer , who saw the business was a serious one .
“ Proceed , ” she said .
Cloud sounded half past ten .
Instead of a rude mixture of sailors , soldiers , and those belonging to the humblest grade of life , the present assembly was composed of the very flower of Marseilles society , —magistrates who had resigned their office during the usurper ’ s reign ; officers who had deserted from the imperial army and joined forces with Condé ; and younger members of families , brought up to hate and execrate the man whom five years of exile would convert into a martyr , and fifteen of restoration elevate to the rank of a god .
Everyone knows that drunkards and lovers have a protecting deity .
He was naked , with the exception of cloth drawers at the left side of which hung a large knife in a sheath , and he bore on his right shoulder a heavy iron sledge-hammer .
They had not yet begun to slay , but it was well felt that the inclination to do so was not wanting .
Morrel said not a word .
Milady was not deceived .
The latter rose and bowed to the countess , who inclined herself without speaking .
Several persons are invited , and among others , M. Danglars , your banker .
Two or three masks strove to knock his _moccoletto_ out of his hand ; but Albert , a first-rate pugilist , sent them rolling in the street , one after the other , and continued his course towards the church of San Giacomo .
my husband could accompany me. ” “ But do you know this mysterious count is a bachelor ? ” “ You have ample proof to the contrary , if you look opposite , ” said the baroness , as she laughingly pointed to the beautiful Greek .
Villefort , approached Noirtier .
“ The bandits shouted with laughter .
The judges themselves appeared to be stupefied , and the jury manifested tokens of disgust for a cynicism so unexpected in a man of fashion .
That was a noble example to follow , monsieur. ” “ Why , ” replied Danglars , “ not entirely so ; with the servants , —you understand. ” “ I see ; to your domestics you are ‘ my lord , ’ the journalists style you ‘ monsieur , ’ while your constituents call you ‘ citizen. ’ These are distinctions very suitable under a constitutional government .
Mercédès was much changed within the last few days ; not that even in her days of fortune she had ever dressed with the magnificent display which makes us no longer able to recognize a woman when she appears in a plain and simple attire ; nor indeed , had she fallen into that state of depression where it is impossible to conceal the garb of misery ; no , the change in Mercédès was that her eye no longer sparkled , her lips no longer smiled , and there was now a hesitation in uttering the words which formerly sprang so fluently from her ready wit .
Let me know what crime I have committed .
It is impossible to say whether Charles , who kept his eyes constantly closed , had noticed the insolence of the Puritan captain , but the moment he heard the clear tone of D ’ Artagnan ’ s voice his eyelids rose , in spite of himself .
Chapter LXXXIV .
From Avignon to Marseilles , seven francs ........ ....... 7 .
Nevertheless she still waited patiently till the hour for dinner .
He watched the effect of this question on the old man .
The man who had disappeared returned suddenly on the opposite side to that by which he had left ; he made a sign with his head to the sentinel , who , turning to the boat , said , “ _S ’ accommodi_. ” The Italian _s ’ accommodi_ is untranslatable ; it means at once , “ Come , enter , you are welcome ; make yourself at home ; you are the master. ” It is like that Turkish phrase of Molière ’ s that so astonished the bourgeois gentleman by the number of things implied in its utterance .
It could no longer be doubted ; the family name was fully given .
“ And now , ” said Athos , “ what is to be done ?
“ At the same time , ” added Château-Renaud , “ your Count of Monte Cristo is a very fine fellow , always excepting his little arrangements with the Italian banditti. ” “ There are no Italian banditti , ” said Debray .
Assassin , assassin , assassin , you have still on your brow your master ’ s blood !
As for me I can only repeat , may God protect you and all dear to you ! ” “ Sir , ” said De Guiche to his tutor , “ we will precede you , and you can rejoin us on the road to Cambrin. ” The host was at his door and everything was prepared—bed , bandages , and lint ; and a groom had gone to Lens , the nearest village , for a doctor .
ah ?
All the mundane objects that generally strike the eye on entering the room of a young man , particularly when that young man is a Musketeer , had disappeared as if by enchantment ; and for fear , no doubt , that the sight of them might bring his master back to ideas of this world , Bazin had laid his hands upon sword , pistols , plumed hat , and embroideries and laces of all kinds and sorts .
He entered , after having twisted his mustache and elongated his imperial , which always announced on his part the most triumphant resolutions .
But all the Italians are the same ; they are like old Jews when they are not glittering in Oriental splendor. ” “ The young man is better , ” said Danglars .
“ Not I , unfortunately ! ” said Porthos .
Heaven is as inflexible as man , and the signature of the contract is fixed for this evening at nine o ’ clock .
I am credited on you for six millions .
He followed him .
Vampa , when this man is satisfied , let him be free. ” Danglars remained prostrate while the count withdrew ; when he raised his head he saw disappearing down the passage nothing but a shadow , before which the bandits bowed .
You are right , Athos , ” said Aramis ; “ and it is a rather difficult matter .
“ Does he regret me a little ?
They dined apart from one another , wherever they might happen to be , or rather where they could .
And to that friend I say , ‘ During the three-quarters of an hour that the struggle continued , I watched the convulsions and the death of Madame de Saint-Méran , and am thoroughly convinced that not only did her death proceed from poison , but I could also specify the poison. ’ ” “ Can it be possible ? ” “ The symptoms are marked , do you see ? —sleep broken by nervous spasms , excitation of the brain , torpor of the nerve centres .
My trial was to come on at the approaching assizes ; when , on the 8th of September—that is to say , precisely three months and five days after the events which had perilled my life—the Abbé Busoni , whom I never ventured to believe I should see , presented himself at the prison doors , saying he understood one of the prisoners wished to speak to him ; he added , that having learned at Marseilles the particulars of my imprisonment , he hastened to comply with my desire .
“ Yes , ” said Morrel , “ it is true ; I have but now left a house where death has just entered , to run to you. ” “ Are you then come from M. de Morcerf ’ s ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
I was afraid , not of a struggle , but of a failure .
He acknowledged the extreme kindness which had been shown him by the banker ’ s family , in which he had been received as a son , and where , besides , his warmest affections had found an object on which to centre in Mademoiselle Danglars .
Chapter LVIII .
He had on his estates the rights of high and low tribunals .
“ Look at it , ” said the abbé with a smile .
Valentine ? ” “ Yes , yes , ” signed Noirtier .
“ Well. ” inquired Franz , after the countess had a second time directed her _lorgnette_ at the box , “ what do you think of our opposite neighbor ? ” 20147m “ Why , that he is no other than Lord Ruthven himself in a living form. ” This fresh allusion to Byron5 drew a smile to Franz ’ s countenance ; although he could but allow that if anything was likely to induce belief in the existence of vampires , it would be the presence of such a man as the mysterious personage before him .
The pope awaited him .
“ Wholly yours , “ Aramis. ” D ’ Artagnan tried to recall his remembrances .
I once endeavored to go down with two of my servants ; but he flew into terrible rage .
Boisgoli , let him send one of his best , but not such a one as he made for La Ramee .
Then he added , in a low tone , “ Yes ; that is the haven. ” And then he again plunged into a train of thought , the character of which was better revealed by a sad smile , than it would have been by tears .
“ I am sorry he does not speak French , that I might tender him my compliments. ” “ I am ready to receive and return them , sir , ” said the officer , in pretty good French , “ for I resided three years in Paris. ” “ Then , sir , allow me to assure you that your blow was so well directed that you have nearly killed your man. ” “ Nearly ?
“ How did these letters come ? ” said he .
Independently of every selfish wish , his heart palpitated with joy when he saw that tall form and martial demeanor , which recalled to him a good and brave man .
0159m Owing to this change , the worthy shipowner became at that moment—we will not say all powerful , because Morrel was a prudent and rather a timid man , so much so , that many of the most zealous partisans of Bonaparte accused him of “ moderation ” —but sufficiently influential to make a demand in favor of Dantès .
Now , if you are mad and try to bite me , I will kill you without pity .
Monsieur Baptistin especially ; I could never get such a man as that .
“ It is he , ” said she .
“ Judge for yourself , ” replied he .
He descended , or rather seemed to descend , several steps , inhaling the fresh and balmy air , like that which may be supposed to reign around the grotto of Circe , formed from such perfumes as set the mind a-dreaming , and such fires as burn the very senses ; and he saw again all he had seen before his sleep , from Sinbad , his singular host , to Ali , the mute attendant ; then all seemed to fade away and become confused before his eyes , like the last shadows of the magic lantern before it is extinguished , and he was again in the chamber of statues , lighted only by one of those pale and antique lamps which watch in the dead of the night over the sleep of pleasure .
Noirtier gave his assent .
1.E.8 .
And do you believe he knew you again , Kitty ? ” “ I pulled down my hood as soon as I saw him , but perhaps it was too late. ” “ Go down , Athos—he mistrusts you less than me—and see if he be still at his door. ” Athos went down and returned immediately .
The curates asked him what was to be done .
The four friends took leave of him and asked if they could deliver any message for him to his brother .
The emperor is more strict in prison discipline than even Louis himself , and the number of prisoners whose names are not on the register is incalculable. ” Had Morrel even any suspicions , so much kindness would have dispelled them .
The soldiers were playing or sleeping ; two of them were singing in a corner , out of tune , the psalm : “ On the rivers of Babylon. ” D ’ Artagnan called the sergeant .
I pretended that I disliked the idea that a house belonging to my wife ’ s father and mother should pass into the hands of strangers .
“ And when shall we have the honor of seeing you again , your excellency ? ” asked Cavalcanti .
When he arrives , I will not fail to do so. ” Just then , a handsome young man , with bright eyes , black hair , and glossy moustache , respectfully bowed to Madame de Villefort .
My ten years of service have also confirmed my ideas on the subject of sudden inspirations , for I have several times owed my life to a mysterious impulse which directed me to move at once either to the right or to the left , in order to escape the ball which killed the comrade fighting by my side , while it left me unharmed. ” “ Dear Maximilian , why not attribute your escape to my constant prayers for your safety ?
“ This affair does not , then , weigh upon your conscience ? ” “ Faith , no. ” “ And you , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ I—I own that when my mind returns to that terrible period I have no recollection of anything but the rigid corpse of poor Madame Bonancieux .
Certainly , if Milady ’ s strength had been equal to her hatred , Mme .
But this is not to the purpose , —our business concerns Valentine , let us leave the dead in peace. ” All this was said with such exceeding rapidity , that there was something in the conversation that seemed like the beginning of delirium .
He knelt down just opposite the chapel in order not to lose sight of his man ; and as he had almost forgotten his prayers and had omitted to take a book with him , he made use of his time in gazing at Bazin .
It was Mousqueton , who , having no straw to lie upon , had helped himself to that of the horses .
I should tell you that we lived in the little village of Rogliano , at the extremity of Cap Corse .
In fact , we must not dissemble that the oscillation of the tall trees and the reflection of the moon in the dark underwood gave him serious uneasiness .
Porthos came up behind , and unhooking the lamp on the staircase relit that in the room .
“ ‘ Signed , El-Kobbir. ’ “ ‘ That this record should have all due authority , it shall bear the imperial seal , which the vendor is bound to have affixed to it. ’ “ Near the merchant ’ s signature there was , indeed , the seal of the sublime emperor .
Come , tell me all the good fortune that has befallen you. ” “ God forgive me , ” said the young man , “ for rejoicing at happiness derived from the misery of others , but , Heaven knows , I did not seek this good fortune ; it has happened , and I really can not pretend to lament it .
We mount them and before daylight are twenty leagues distant. ” Athos placed his two hands on D ’ Artagnan ’ s shoulders , and gazed at him with his calm , sad smile .
Raoul at this moment perceived the muzzle of a gun pointed at him , and remembering the recommendation of Athos , he , with the rapidity of lightning , made his horse rear as the shot was fired .
You can ’ t think how I have missed him , the great simpleton .
Happily , I vanquished death .
And in proof that he fears nothing , that he counts on nothing , he will restore Monsieur de Mazarin to your majesty without conditions .
“ Yes , yes , I see .
in that case , gentlemen , ” said the footman , on hearing the names which the queen had so often pronounced with hope , “ in that case it is another thing , and I think her majesty will pardon me for not keeping you here a moment .
“ Well , where the devil are you going now ? ” cried Athos .
Parry , for his part , will raise this slab of marble and a passage will be opened. ” “ Oh , Juxon , ” said the king , seizing the bishop ’ s two hands in his own , “ promise that you will pray all your life for this gentleman and for the other that you hear beneath your feet , and for two others also , who , wherever they may be , are on the watch for my safety. ” “ Sire , ” replied Juxon , “ you shall be obeyed. ” Meanwhile , the miner underneath was heard working away incessantly , when suddenly an unexpected noise resounded in the passage .
do you again defy me ? ” “ No ; the fact is , I have found my father. ” “ What ?
D ’ Artagnan smiled .
why is not Grimaud , the taciturn Grimaud , here ? ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ there are so many things his silence would have told me ; with Grimaud silence was another form of eloquence ! ” There reigned a perfect stillness in the house .
What do you mean ?
But my real treasure is not that , my dear friend , which awaits me beneath the sombre rocks of Monte Cristo , it is your presence , our living together five or six hours a day , in spite of our jailers ; it is the rays of intelligence you have elicited from my brain , the languages you have implanted in my memory , and which have taken root there with all their philological ramifications .
“ Tell them to stop at Rue de la Fontaine , No .
Henceforth , Valentine , you will never again be separated on earth , since he has rushed into death to find you .
“ I was saying it was very interesting. ” “ What was ? ” “ All you were showing me .
Tell me quickly ; my time is not my own. ” “ Monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ on quitting Tarbes and coming hither , it was my intention to request of you , in remembrance of the friendship which you have not forgotten , the uniform of a Musketeer ; but after all that I have seen during the last two hours , I comprehend that such a favor is enormous , and tremble lest I should not merit it. ” “ It is indeed a favor , young man , ” replied M. de Tréville , “ but it may not be so far beyond your hopes as you believe , or rather as you appear to believe .
He opened a window and leaned out to listen .
The poor fool is cured of his folly , and delivered from his captivity. ” “ Wasn ’ t his name Faria ? ” inquired one of the officers who accompanied the governor .
“ Oh , do not give me credit for this , madame ; it was done by the Romans , who much esteemed them , and Pliny relates that they sent slaves from Ostia to Rome , who carried on their heads fish which he calls the _mulus_ , and which , from the description , must probably be the goldfish .
“ What do you want ? ” asked Blaisois .
“ And then , ” continued Mme .
It is sacrilege to struggle against so many things , my Lord .
“ Instead of shutting yourself up here as if you were under arrest , get on horseback and come and take a ride with me to St. Germain. ” “ My dear fellow , ” said Athos , “ I ride horses when I have any ; when I have none , I go afoot. ” “ Well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , smiling at the misanthropy of Athos , which from any other person would have offended him , “ I ride what I can get ; I am not so proud as you .
He found the other two friends sitting at table before a good fire , drinking a bottle of port and devouring a cold chicken .
Two eggs and some fruit composed my repast ; then I drew another glass of water from my protecting fountain , and drank it .
For from this moment we are at feud with the cardinal. ” Chapter X .
The queen !
Is he at home ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” said Mousqueton , “ but in a very ill humor .
Six Arabs came up , full gallop , to cut off my head .
“ A loan , nothing more !
D ’ Artagnan on the contrary remained concealed behind them ; but although the king knew Athos , Porthos , and Aramis personally , he passed before them without speaking or looking—indeed , as if he had never seen them before .
There was a moment at which he felt something like remorse .
All at once Felton stopped .
“ M .
Morrel then cast on the invalid an interrogative look as to the new favor which he designed to bestow on him .
“ I have already got up again after three stabs from you , I shall never rise after this fourth. ” “ Count ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , with some degree of emotion , “ I struck without knowing that it was you .
Advise me what I had better do. ’ “ ‘ Emmanuel , ’ returned my sister , ‘ the house of Morrel can only be carried on by a Morrel .
In twenty-four hours he was attacked by a fever , and died three days afterwards .
La Chesnaye , go and see if by rummaging all my pockets you can find forty pistoles ; and if you can find them , bring them to me .
To lose you my friendship if he were conquered , and see that friendship changed into hate if you were victor .
There were no questions .
D ’ Artagnan examined the countenances of his companions , which , like that of Athos , wore an impression of deep anxiety ; and they continued their route as fast as their horses could carry them , but without adding another word .
As for Monte Cristo , his eyes slowly rose towards heaven with an expression of infinite gratitude .
Italy : Sinbad the Sailor Chapter 32 .
Meanwhile , the queen every hour had been sending for D ’ Artagnan .
In May we commenced operations , and in the course of the month gained 450,000 francs .
She had profited by my absence , and furnished with the half of the linen , and having written down the day and hour at which I had deposited the child at the asylum , had set off for Paris , and had reclaimed it .
“ As one confides a letter to the hollow of a tree , to the wing of a pigeon , to the collar of a dog. ” “ And yet , me—you see plainly that I love you. ” “ You say so. ” “ I am an honorable man. ” “ You say so. ” “ I am a gallant fellow. ” “ I believe it. ” “ I am brave. ” “ Oh , I am sure of that ! ” “ Then , put me to the proof. ” Mme .
“ Is it Mazarin ’ s proximity that makes you so prudent ? ” “ Oh , you hear that , Flamarens ! ” said Chatillon .
And the edicts ?
Anne of Austria received the blow with a beating heart .
Dinner was waiting , but as Albert had told him that he should not return so soon , Franz sat down without him .
Are they made to order ? ” “ Precisely , ” said the count ; “ six years since I bought a horse in Hungary remarkable for its swiftness .
I shall be at home till midday , or if not , I will leave a receipt with my steward. ” “ The money you desire shall be at your house by ten o ’ clock tomorrow morning , my dear count , ” replied Danglars .
“ And whom I advised you to strangle , Porthos , ” said Aramis .
You know , Raoul , Grimaud is an old and zealous servant ; he will follow you. ” “ Yes , sir , ” answered Raoul .
In the meantime there is bread , water , and fresh straw ; and that is all a prisoner can wish for .
Thanks to the hopes which his master entertained of someday entering into orders , he was always clothed in black , as became the servant of a churchman .
Poor Assunta had guessed all .
At the same moment the count seized with his left hand the assassin ’ s wrist , and wrung it with such strength that the knife fell from his stiffened fingers , and Caderousse uttered a cry of pain .
This door was a mockery to the _concierge_ , from whose vigilance and jurisdiction it was free , and , like that famous portal in the _Arabian Nights_ , opening at the “ _Sesame_ ” of Ali Baba , it was wont to swing backward at a cabalistic word or a concerted tap from without from the sweetest voices or whitest fingers in the world .
Whatever may ensue , I will go. ” “ If you are determined , ” said Athos , “ do so. ” “ But the Bastille ? ” said Aramis .
I was just beginning the soup , and you will dine with me. ” “ Oh , oh ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ Mousqueton has not caught these bottles with his lasso .
“ Yes , ” replied the old man .
Will you accompany me to the harbor , Maximilian ? ” 50233m “ I am entirely yours , count. ” Morrel accompanied the count to the harbor .
I shall find many men as able as you are. ” “ I wish you may , my lord , ” replied De Rochefort .
A FAMILY AFFAIR Chapter XLIX .
is there a house in the neighborhood ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Until to-morrow evening you are not at your own disposal. ” “ Let it be then the day after to-morrow , ” said Aramis .
As for the accused himself , many remembered him as being so amiable , so handsome , and so liberal , that they chose to think him the victim of some conspiracy , since in this world large fortunes frequently excite the malevolence and jealousy of some unknown enemy .
He judged that the match would be so much the less equal , if Athos and his companions were really plotting ; and by one of those rapid turns which he always had at command , all his anger faded away into a smile .
no more than a drop of water in the ocean. ” “ Remember , ” chimed in La Carconte , “ those two could crush you at a single blow ! ” “ How so ? ” inquired the abbé .
It would be conceding too much to allow you to put on a mask to aid you in the discovery of our secret , and then to remove it that you may ruin those who have confided in you .
Duc de Beaufort amused his Leisure Hours in the Donjon of Vincennes .
They passed into the eating room—a large dark room situated opposite the kitchen .
The next day was spent as usual .
“ I had been tracked by a customs-officer , who had lost sight of me near the tavern ; feeling certain that I intended to pass the night there , he had returned to summon his comrades , who just arrived in time to hear the report of the pistol , and to take me in the midst of such circumstantial proofs of my guilt as rendered all hopes of proving my innocence utterly futile .
A sentinel struck the rings of his carbine against his left hand .
de Montbazon , and Mme .
Porthos followed , chatting with Aramis .
So he cherishes no resentment ? ” “ You are mistaken , Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
You can not understand the position we are in .
You were too young to know about such things. ” “ I do not remember what he did , but I have inquired and I have been told all about it. ” “ And who told you about it ? ” asked Anne of Austria , with a movement of impatience .
At the door he found his carriage , and was immediately driven to the bank .
I can discover and explain to you my grandfather ’ s thoughts , so as to put an end to all your doubts and fears on the subject .
The heart of the best woman is pitiless toward the sorrows of a rival .
In eight days the campaign would open , and he would be compelled to leave Paris ; D ’ Artagnan had no time for a prolonged love siege .
Your offer , however , smooths all difficulties , and I have only to ask you , my dear M. de Morcerf ” ( these words were accompanied by a most peculiar smile ) , “ whether you undertake , upon my arrival in France , to open to me the doors of that fashionable world of which I know no more than a Huron or a native of Cochin-China ? ” “ Oh , that I do , and with infinite pleasure , ” answered Albert ; “ and so much the more readily as a letter received this morning from my father summons me to Paris , in consequence of a treaty of marriage ( my dear Franz , do not smile , I beg of you ) with a family of high standing , and connected with the very cream of Parisian society. ” “ Connected by marriage , you mean , ” said Franz , laughingly .
A MOUSETRAP IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY The invention of the mousetrap does not date from our days ; as soon as societies , in forming , had invented any kind of police , that police invented mousetraps .
Touches upon the Strange Effects a Half-pistole may have .
“ Well , for my part , ” said Athos , “ I found Aramis ’ s Spanish wine so good that I sent on a hamper of sixty bottles of it in the wagon with the lackeys .
Richelieu , who passed his life in warding off blows which were forever aimed at him ! ” “ But he did ward them off , ” said De Rochefort , “ and the reason was , that though he had bitter enemies he possessed also true friends .
Oh no !
“ Yes , for time presses. ” “ How many men have you about the Palais Royal ? ” “ Six hundred. ” “ Place a hundred around the king and with the remainder sweep away this mob for me. ” “ Madame , ” cried Mazarin , “ what are you about ? ” “ Go ! ” said the queen .
To answer you would be to acknowledge you as my judges , and I only acknowledge you as my executioners. ” And in the middle of a deathlike silence , Charles , calm , lofty , and with his head still covered , sat down again in his arm-chair .
“ Doctor d ’ Avrigny , ” said Barrois , staggering as if he would fall .
“ Do you know what has become of Athos ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan of Planchet , as they galloped on .
How much have we , Louise ? ” The young girl to whom this question was addressed drew from an inlaid secretaire a small portfolio with a lock , in which she counted twenty-three bank-notes .
Baptistin had not found any difficulty in recognizing the person who presented himself at the door for admittance .
This made him less uneasy , it must be owned , than if the new-comer had proved to be a customs officer ; but this supposition also disappeared like the first , when he beheld the perfect tranquillity of his recruit .
“ Oh , ” said Morrel , “ I know not , indeed , if I may reveal this secret to mortal ears , but fatality impels me , necessity constrains me , count—— ” Morrel hesitated .
Gaetano then exchanged a few words with this man which the traveller did not understand , but which evidently concerned him .
One day when I cursed Providence for making me so wicked , and ordaining me to such a fate , my adopted father said to me , ‘ Do not blaspheme , unhappy child , the crime is that of your father , not yours , —of your father , who consigned you to hell if you died , and to misery if a miracle preserved you alive. ’ After that I ceased to blaspheme , but I cursed my father .
“ A hundred pistoles !
Furthermore , D ’ Artagnan went with them , leaving Porthos at play with Groslow .
I do ! ” replied Athos , with a deep sigh .
“ If that is the case , I warn you , I shall have you put in a lunatic asylum. ” “ Alas !
“ Oh , mother , ” he exclaimed , “ such a misfortune has happened ! ” “ What ?
A week before his return Lord de Winter died , leaving me his sole heir .
“ Well ? ” said Athos .
Adieu !
Come in , Tréville. ” The Duke saluted and retired .
Laughingly he said to the councillor , restored to his family : “ Do you think , father , that if now I should ask for a company the queen would give it to me ? ” D ’ Artagnan profited by this interval of calm to send away Raoul , whom he had great difficulty in keeping shut up during the riot , and who wished positively to strike a blow for one party or the other .
I wish to thank them all at once .
“ Come , come , ” said the old man , “ be comforted , my poor child ; there is still hope ! ” “ Hope ! ” repeated Danglars .
And now , ” continued he , “ you must change your clothes ; your servants , to whom I gave directions the moment they had left the ferryboat , ought to be already at the inn .
“ Unhappily , those times are past. ” “ Nonsense !
“ What are you thinking of , D ’ Artagnan ? ” he began .
“ Do you know of what he died ! ” asked d ’ Avrigny , placing his hand on Noirtier ’ s shoulder .
“ Gentlemen , did you ever see a scorpion pinned to a wall ?
“ You were ; you know how I settled the matter. ” “ Did he die ? ” “ I don ’ t know .
“ His honor ’ s equipage is waiting , ” said Mousqueton .
“ This is all very easy for you to say , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ for you , Athos , who live like a dumb man with Grimaud , who forbid him to speak , and consequently never exchange ill words with him ; for you , Porthos , who carry matters in such a magnificent style , and are a god to your valet , Mousqueton ; and for you , Aramis , who , always abstracted by your theological studies , inspire your servant , Bazin , a mild , religious man , with a profound respect ; but for me , who am without any settled means and without resources—for me , who am neither a Musketeer nor even a Guardsman , what am I to do to inspire either the affection , the terror , or the respect in Planchet ? ” “ This is serious , ” answered the three friends ; “ it is a family affair .
“ By the way , ” said M. de Boville , “ are you not going to the funeral of poor Mademoiselle de Villefort , which I met on my road here ? ” “ No , ” said the banker ; “ I have appeared rather ridiculous since that affair of Benedetto , so I remain in the background. ” “ Bah , you are wrong .
“ Mordioux ! ” answered D ’ Artagnan , “ I believe we must .
Give him a direct invitation , but do not ask me to present him .
The general was there , surrounded by the more prominent chiefs .
“ Why , when a man has friends , they are not only to offer him a glass of wine , but , moreover , to prevent his swallowing three or four pints of water unnecessarily ! ” Fernand gave a groan , which resembled a sob , and dropped his head into his hands , his elbows leaning on the table .
“ It was at night .
Do you believe there is a spot on the earth which the cardinal can not reach if he takes the trouble to stretch forth his hand ?
“ But his Majesty has judges , and these judges will decide. ” “ That is best , ” said the king .
Some are affected with the mania of which you spoke just now , that of living again in their grandchildren .
He set out , and on the Saturday evening reached the Place de la Douane by the mail-coach .
Say there is no need why Dantès should die ; it would , indeed , be a pity he should .
They were just abreast of Mareciana , and beyond the flat but verdant Island of La Pianosa .
Dantès employed it in manœuvring his yacht round the island , studying it as a skilful horseman would the animal he destined for some important service , till at the end of that time he was perfectly conversant with its good and bad qualities .
Attend to yourself ; answer me. ” Dantès waited , expecting a question , but in vain .
“ Is he at liberty ? ” asked the queen .
“ No ? ” said the notary ; “ then , perhaps , it is to your son , M. de Villefort ? ” “ No. ” The two notaries looked at each other in mute astonishment and inquiry as to what were the real intentions of the testator .
In this state of mutual understanding , they reached Leghorn .
Caderousse still evaded all pursuit , and I had resigned myself to what seemed my inevitable fate .
I sometimes dream , that ’ s all .
A light moved rapidly from time to time past three windows of the second floor .
“ What do you want , sir ? ” asked the driver .
What is the use of time , rewards of merit , medals , crosses , Monthyon prizes , if they do not lead society towards more complete perfection ?
What must come is written. ” “ Monsieur does not then renounce his excursion for this evening ? ” “ Quite the contrary , Planchet ; the more ill will I have toward Monsieur Bonacieux , the more punctual I shall be in keeping the appointment made by that letter which makes you so uneasy. ” “ Then that is Monsieur ’ s determination ? ” “ Undeniably , my friend .
“ And who brought you up ? ” he asked again .
A woman , and consequently subject to the weaknesses of my sex , I am alarmed at the idea of civil war ; a queen , accustomed to be obeyed , I am excited at the first opposition. ” “ Madame , ” replied Gondy , bowing , “ your majesty is mistaken in qualifying my sincere advice as opposition .
When left alone , the two friends at first kept an embarrassed silence .
“ Poor girl , ” said Debray , like the rest , paying an involuntary tribute to the sad event , — “ poor girl , so young , so rich , so beautiful !
It is said that we must not trust to the face ; but in what , then , shall we place confidence , if not in the most beautiful work of the Lord ?
“ Make room ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
These attempts did not prevent the cardinal , to whom his most inveterate detractors have never denied personal bravery , from making nocturnal excursions , sometimes to communicate to the Duc d ’ Angoulême important orders , sometimes to confer with the king , and sometimes to have an interview with a messenger whom he did not wish to see at home .
“ They told ten other stories of this bandit chief , each more singular than the other .
“ Let us choose a place of rendezvous , ” continued Athos , “ and in a last interview arrange our mutual position and the conduct we are to maintain toward each other. ” “ Good ! ” the other three exclaimed .
Oh , Mercédès , I have uttered your name with the sigh of melancholy , with the groan of sorrow , with the last effort of despair ; I have uttered it when frozen with cold , crouched on the straw in my dungeon ; I have uttered it , consumed with heat , rolling on the stone floor of my prison .
This man is still your friend , and you , perhaps , make use of him as your accomplice. ” 40160m “ Oh , reverend sir ! ” “ Since you left Toulon what have you lived on ?
Let us talk of those , if you please .
The bare idea would kill me—would drive me like a madman to dig my heart out with my finger-nails !
And as to this book , ” added she , pointing to the manual with her finger but without touching it , as if she must be contaminated by it , “ you may carry it back and make use of it yourself , for doubtless you are doubly the accomplice of Lord de Winter—the accomplice in his persecutions , the accomplice in his heresies. ” Felton made no reply , took the book with the same appearance of repugnance which he had before manifested , and retired pensively .
Bonacieux .
That is the reply I beg you to make to Lord de Winter .
GEORGE VILLIERS , DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM Mme .
“ He has come ! ” thought Milady .
Although I was without mistrust , a vague fear seized me , and I tried to struggle against sleepiness .
“ But if they say , ‘ it must be ’ to me , am I no longer king ? ” The queen remained silent .
After reading the first lines of the letter Mazarin gave a side glance at him to see if he was watching the expression of his face as he read .
What a disgrace to us. ” “ Oh , never fear !
In contrast with the old man , who is dragging his way to the tomb , are two children just entering into life—Valentine , the daughter by my first wife—Mademoiselle Renée de Saint-Méran—and Edward , the boy whose life you have this day saved. ” “ And what is your deduction from this compensation , sir ? ” inquired Monte Cristo .
This time Danglars had double reason to understand , for if the word and gesture had not explained the speaker ’ s meaning , it was clearly expressed by the man walking behind him , who pushed him so rudely that he struck against the guide .
Nothing betokened that the man knew anything of what had occurred .
“ This can not be the establishment of Athos .
you thought to make us , unhappy strangers , trot at the heels of your processions , like so many lazzaroni , because no carriages or horses are to be had in your beggarly city .
Ali was on the box , in whom Franz recognized the dumb slave of the grotto of Monte Cristo .
Athos raised his sword ; D ’ Artagnan lowered his .
I have brought away ten or twelve wounded .
At eleven o ’ clock the mourning-coaches rolled into the paved court , and the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré was filled with a crowd of idlers , equally pleased to witness the festivities or the mourning of the rich , and who rush with the same avidity to a funeral procession as to the marriage of a duchess .
D ’ Artagnan ran out and returned directly after .
With 200 francs we can reach Marseilles. ” “ With 200 francs ? —are you sure , Albert ? ” “ Oh , as for that , I have made inquiries respecting the diligences and steamboats , and my calculations are made .
Charles , having proceeded with Aramis as with Athos , embraced them both .
ha ! ” cried Porthos , who was not completely taken in by D ’ Artagnan ’ s Gasconades .
The soldier went out , leaving the dinner served .
But he did not succeed , and became too intoxicated to fetch any more drink , and yet not so intoxicated as to forget what had happened .
There is the subject simplified .
The initials are only mine—C .
He fancied himself a burden to the society , forgetting in his perfectly juvenile good faith that he had fed this society for a month ; and he set his mind actively to work .
One of the bandits rose , and offered him a glass filled with Orvietto , saying , ‘ To the health of the brave Cucumetto and the fair Rita. ’ At this moment Carlini heard a woman ’ s cry ; he divined the truth , seized the glass , broke it across the face of him who presented it , and rushed towards the spot whence the cry came .
“ Heaven pardon me , ” cried Edmond , falling on his knees before his father .
If it is only to be recognized , why the saddle will suffice for that ; it is quite remarkable enough .
You are joking !
The noble and distinguished air of Athos , those flashes of greatness which from time to time broke out from the shade in which he voluntarily kept himself , that unalterable equality of temper which made him the most pleasant companion in the world , that forced and cynical gaiety , that bravery which might have been termed blind if it had not been the result of the rarest coolness—such qualities attracted more than the esteem , more than the friendship of D ’ Artagnan ; they attracted his admiration .
“ And then , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ to this decrepitude is probably added poverty , for he must have neglected the little that he had , and the dirty scoundrel , Grimaud , more taciturn than ever and still more drunken than his master—stay , Planchet , it breaks my heart to merely think of it. ” “ I fancy myself there and that I see him staggering and hear him stammering , ” said Planchet , in a piteous tone , “ but at all events we shall soon know the real state of things , for I imagine that those lofty walls , now turning ruby in the setting sun , are the walls of Blois. ” “ Probably ; and those steeples , pointed and sculptured , that we catch a glimpse of yonder , are similar to those that I have heard described at Chambord. ” At this moment one of those heavy wagons , drawn by bullocks , which carry the wood cut in the fine forests of the country to the ports of the Loire , came out of a byroad full of ruts and turned on that which the two horsemen were following .
“ Yes. ” “ Shall I give these papers to M. de Villefort ? ” “ No. ” “ To Mademoiselle Valentine ? ” “ No. ” “ To M. Franz d ’ Épinay ? ” “ Yes. ” Franz , astonished , advanced a step .
Danglars bent his head , which he meant to imply , “ Very well. ” The carriage again moved on .
And yet his features wore an expression of smiling tenderness , such as Franz had never before witnessed in them ; his black eyes especially were full of kindness and pity .
“ A friend , a friend ! ” said Peppino ; “ but where is the captain ? ” “ There , ” said the sentinel , pointing over his shoulder to a spacious crypt , hollowed out of the rock , the lights from which shone into the passage through the large arched openings .
The abbess looked at her for an instant with uneasiness , as if a fresh thought suggested itself to her mind .
“ Good Caderousse , ” he said , “ how happy you will be. ” “ I will do my best , ” said the innkeeper of the Pont du Gard , shutting up his knife .
If you are outside the United States , check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading , copying , displaying , performing , distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work .
Toward midday , Lord de Winter entered .
“ Is the king wounded ? ” cried Lord Winter .
“ His eminence will continue to be prime minister and her majesty ’ s favorite , if he will grant to me and my friends what we demand for France and for ourselves. ” “ Occupy yourselves with your own affairs , gentlemen , and let France settle matters as she will with me , ” resumed Mazarin .
“ I have a letter to give you from the count. ” “ From the count ! ” murmured the two young people .
Uneasy and almost crazed , she seized his hand and led him to her grandfather .
If we are to judge by all the vengeance that the followers of the usurper exercised on the partisans of the king , when , in their turn , they were in power , your brother would be today , in all probability , condemned to death .
On whom do my hopes rest ?
Monte Cristo remained on the same spot until Maximilian was out of sight ; he then walked slowly towards the Allées de Meilhan to seek out a small house with which our readers were made familiar at the beginning of this story .
well , you wished to conceal your journey from me , and yet I knew of your arrival half an hour after you had passed the barrier .
He fetched from an old secretaire a sheet of white paper and pen and ink .
“ As I noticed the significant manner in which the whole party pointed to my blood-stained garments , I involuntarily surveyed myself , and then I discovered that the thick warm drops that had so bedewed me as I lay beneath the staircase must have been the blood of La Carconte .
In a quarter of an hour we set off. ” “ That ’ s the advice I was about to give Monsieur ; and where are we going , may I ask , without being too curious ? ” _ “ Pardieu ! _ In the opposite direction to that which you said I was gone .
I detest her , from antipathy. ” “ Or , rather , by instinct. ” “ Perhaps so .
“ To join the army , under the prince , count. ” “ And I , too ! ” exclaimed the young man , in a transport of joy .
Renée was , with all the rest of the company , anxiously awaiting him , and his entrance was followed by a general exclamation .
“ Ah !
Towns fled from them like shadows on their path , and trees shaken by the first winds of autumn seemed like giants madly rushing on to meet them , and retreating as rapidly when once reached .
Villefort ran to her and seized her hand , which convulsively clasped a crystal bottle with a golden stopper .
Has anyone shown the mercy towards me that you now ask at my hands ?
Then began his travels , his duels , his caprices ; then the insurrection in Greece broke out , and he had served in the Grecian ranks .
“ One day the young shepherd told the count ’ s steward that he had seen a wolf come out of the Sabine mountains , and prowl around his flock .
“ You were right , ” he said , “ my dear Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , and you can not set out yet .
My sister , how did your husband die ? ” “ Horror ! ” cried Porthos and Aramis .
The explosion soon followed ; the upper rock was lifted from its base by the terrific force of the powder ; the lower one flew into pieces ; thousands of insects escaped from the aperture Dantès had previously formed , and a huge snake , like the guardian demon of the treasure , rolled himself along in darkening coils , and disappeared .
The House at Auteuil Monte Cristo noticed , as they descended the staircase , that Bertuccio signed himself in the Corsican manner ; that is , had formed the sign of the cross in the air with his thumb , and as he seated himself in the carriage , muttered a short prayer .
I was brought here by night , so devil take me if I know where I am. ” “ Well , ” said Comminges , “ suppose one thing. ” “ I will suppose anything you please. ” “ Suppose there were a window in this wall. ” “ Well ? ” “ From that window you would see Monsieur de la Fere at his. ” “ The count , then , is in the chateau ? ” “ Yes. ” “ For what reason ? ” “ The same as yourself. ” “ Athos—a prisoner ? ” “ You know well , ” replied De Comminges , “ that there are no prisoners at Rueil , because there is no prison. ” “ Don ’ t let us play upon words , sir .
“ There now , ” said Eugénie , “ while I change my costume do you lock the portmanteau. ” Louise pressed with all the strength of her little hands on the top of the portmanteau .
The porter at the palace was about to close the gates , but seeing such a handsome equipage he fancied that it was some visit of importance and the carriage was allowed to pass and to stop beneath the porch .
You are a Christian ; you are my sister in religion .
This kind of life fatigues and oppresses me ; besides , he is a turbulent fellow , who will ruin our party .
This , however , did not prevent his asking , with the greatest coolness , after his Majesty ’ s health .
“ Oh , sir , I beg your pardon ! ” exclaimed Raoul , ashamed of so much attention ; “ in an instant I shall be dressed. ” Athos then called Olivain .
The Guardsmen , imagining this to be caused by some unexpected attack , either of the besieged or the English , sprang to their swords .
“ I mean , as I love .
He admired the strong hands , the broad shoulders and the steady eye of Porthos .
Title : The Count of Monte Cristo , Illustrated Author : Alexandre Dumas Release date : January 1 , 1998 [ eBook # 1184 ] Most recently updated : October 14 , 2022 Language : English Credits : Anonymous Project Gutenberg Volunteers , Dan Muller and David Widger * * * START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO , ILLUSTRATED * * * THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO by Alexandre Dumas [ père ] 0009m 0011m 0019m Contents VOLUME ONE Chapter 1 .
“ I desire but one thing in this world , Edmond , —the happiness of my son. ” “ Pray to the Almighty to spare his life , and I will take upon myself to promote his happiness. ” “ Thank you , Edmond. ” “ But have you no request to make for yourself , Mercédès ? ” “ For myself I want nothing .
All these evolutions are executed with an inconceivable address and marvellous rapidity , without the police interfering in the matter .
And the thing was so much the more annoying , as , according to the characteristic modesty of a Frenchman , Albert had quitted Paris with the full conviction that he had only to show himself in Italy to carry all before him , and that upon his return he should astonish the Parisian world with the recital of his numerous love-affairs .
Franz found himself in utter darkness .
He was alone in the darkness with sailors whom he did not know , and who had no reason to be devoted to him ; who knew that he had several thousand francs in his belt , and who had often examined his weapons , —which were very beautiful , —if not with envy , at least with curiosity .
In short , Groslow seemed to be pleased with his reception .
“ Yes , madame , another service , ” said Athos , shocked that the queen did not seem to recognize him .
It is kept by a friend of ours. ” “ At last we have something definite , ” said Athos ; “ let us go to the Peacock. ” “ Yes , ” answered Aramis , “ but if we are to get there we must rest our horses , for they are almost broken-winded. ” Aramis was right ; they stopped at the first tavern and made each horse swallow a double quantity of corn steeped in wine ; they gave them three hours ’ rest and then set off again .
“ I was most anxious to see you. ” “ But it must have vexed M. Morrel , good , worthy man , ” said Caderousse .
“ Ah , your excellency , ” murmured the pilot , “ you should not have done so ; our master will scold us for it. ” The young man continued to advance , following the sailors , who chose a firm footing .
Expiation Notwithstanding the density of the crowd , M. de Villefort saw it open before him .
The Carnival at Rome When Franz recovered his senses , he saw Albert drinking a glass of water , of which , to judge from his pallor , he stood in great need ; and the count , who was assuming his masquerade costume .
Her will be done , like that of God , in all things. ” Then , he began to kiss , one after the other , those dear studs with which he was about to part .
Raoul had only been at M. Scarron ’ s house ; he named to Guiche the people whom he had seen there .
Yet they will forget me here , and I shall die in my dungeon like Faria. ” As he said this , he became silent and gazed straight before him like one overwhelmed with a strange and amazing thought .
She was still exceedingly handsome .
The night was quiet enough .
“ Oh , father , father ! ” murmured she , “ courage ! ” “ The _Pharaon_ has gone down , then ? ” said Morrel in a hoarse voice .
“ This is the matter : be he ever so cunning he shall never say I was his dupe .
What could that mean ?
Richelieu counted on his fingers , and said to himself , “ She will arrive , she says , four or five days after having received the money .
We will talk Italian and Spanish .
Ah !
“ I can not stop a moment ; I must start for Paris again immediately. ” “ What ?
These steps drew near to his dungeon , the door was thrown open , and the guards appeared .
U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff .
In the evening , at the appointed hour , the four friends met .
Instantly a mask , wearing the well-known costume of a peasant woman , snatched his _moccoletto_ from him without his offering any resistance .
Our valets are well armed and yours seems to be tough enough. ” “ I have never seen him put to the test , ” replied Raoul , “ but he is a Breton , which promises something. ” “ Yes , yes , ” resumed De Guiche ; “ I am sure he can fire a musket when required .
Yes , I did wait—yes , I did hope , count , and during this quarter of an hour we have been talking together , you have unconsciously wounded , tortured my heart , for every word you have uttered proved that there was no hope for me .
“ Of course .
Since my convalescence I have so many affairs of this kind on my hands that I am forced to regulate them a little .
At this announcement , during which the door remained open , everyone became mute , and amid the general silence the young man crossed part of the length of the antechamber , and entered the apartment of the captain of the Musketeers , congratulating himself with all his heart at having so narrowly escaped the end of this strange quarrel .
“ And has this man displayed a friendship for you , Albert ? ” she asked with a nervous shudder .
You furnished a principal of 100,000 francs .
Perhaps God will pardon you , but I , never ! ” “ For pity ’ s sake , ” said the executioner , extending his arms .
“ Oh , so much the better , we will fire the first shot together. ” “ It is well ; be friends , ” said the tutor ; “ young as you both are , you were perhaps born under the same star and were destined to meet .
I will have my eye upon you , for I shall be there , ” replied the cardinal , pointing with his finger to a magnificent suit of armor he was to wear , “ and on our return , well—we will settle our account ! ” “ Ah , monseigneur , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ spare me the weight of your displeasure .
“ Alone , Valentine has no power ; she will be compelled to submit .
“ Embrace , with all your heart , the vicomte , for your devoted , friend , “ ATHOS. ” “ I believe , by Heaven , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that I shall embrace him , since he ’ s upon our road ; and if he is so unfortunate as to lose our dear Athos , from that very day he becomes my son. ” “ And I , ” said Porthos , “ shall make him my sole heir. ” “ Let us see , what more does Athos say ? ” “ Should you meet on your journey a certain Monsieur Mordaunt , distrust him , in a letter I can not say more. ” “ Monsieur Mordaunt ! ” exclaimed the Gascon , surprised .
These were the ancestors of Charles , standing back dimly in their tarnished frames .
Julie , Emmanuel , and some of the servants , ran up in alarm on hearing the cries of Maximilian .
But Albert did not know that it takes a day to see Saint Peter ’ s , and a month to study it .
But it ’ s all my fault ; yes , it ’ s all my fault , because it is myself who selects my men .
As the town clock of Newcastle struck one the sleeper awoke , and with all the gestures of a man rousing himself out of deep sleep he looked attentively about him ; perceiving that he was alone he rose and making a little circuit passed close to the cavalier who was speaking to the sentinel .
It may easily be understood , therefore , that the conversation during the whole of dinner turned upon the two checks that his Eminence ’ s Guardsmen had received .
When the police is at fault , it declares that it is on the track ; and the government patiently awaits the day when it comes to say , with a sneaking air , that the track is lost. ” “ Yes , but they have found a corpse ; the general has been killed , and in all countries they call that a murder. ” “ A murder do you call it ?
It is waiting for us at Greenwich , opposite the Isle of Dogs , manned by a captain and four men , who for the sum of fifty pounds sterling will keep themselves at our disposition three successive nights .
Mazarin had left his lamp in the gallery to make people believe that he was walking about , but he had with him a waxlight , to help him to explore his mysterious strong box .
Chapter XLIX .
death is depicted on his face !
Mon Dieu !
What do I say ?
“ Spur your horses !
“ I did think of it , but this letter has neither date nor postmark. ” “ True , ” said Porthos .
Near the pan he also placed a pretty little basket of Villetri grapes and a flask of Orvieto .
Pierced hearts ! ” said Athos .
Madame Bonacieux presented her cheek to him .
Swear first , on your honor , not to inform him of our return. ” “ Conditions ? ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because it is for victors to make conditions , and you are not yet victors , gentlemen. ” “ Then let us draw on the spot .
what a misfortune ! ” He had been informed at seven o ’ clock in the morning that a rope ladder floated from one of the windows of the castle ; he had hastened to Milady ’ s chamber , had found it empty , the window open , and the bars filed , had remembered the verbal caution D ’ Artagnan had transmitted to him by his messenger , had trembled for the duke , and running to the stable without taking time to have a horse saddled , had jumped upon the first he found , had galloped off like the wind , had alighted below in the courtyard , had ascended the stairs precipitately , and on the top step , as we have said , had encountered Felton .
Bonacieux was standing at the door , and looked at D ’ Artagnan hatefully .
haste to him and warn him , ” cried the wounded man , “ if he still lives ; warn his friends , too .
“ M .
Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify , do copyright research on , transcribe and proofread works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project Gutenberg™ collection .
However fugitive this homicide flash , Felton saw it , and started as if its light had revealed the abysses of this woman ’ s heart .
I wore a long sword which cut like a Damascus—you remember it , Aramis for you always called it Balizarde .
Madame , say that you would love me then !
Must I use any password to procure a horse ? ” “ Only dismount ; another will be immediately saddled. ” Albert hesitated a moment .
At this sight Franz felt the perspiration start forth upon his brow .
She might say that Athos had hanged her ; but then Athos would tell that she was branded .
Nineteen years of light to reflect upon in eternal darkness !
He prayed , and prayed aloud , no longer terrified at the sound of his own voice , for he fell into a sort of ecstasy .
You will see , Danglars , that it will turn out an unlucky job for both of us. ” “ Nonsense !
The guests having eaten the soup , were about to lift the first glass of wine to their lips , when all at once the cannon sounded from Fort Louis and Fort Neuf .
After having been so long in love with Madame de Chevreuse , you would hardly lay your heart at the feet of her mortal enemy ! ” “ Yes , ” replied Aramis , with an absent air ; “ yes , that poor duchess !
At the end of an hour she heard a soft voice calling her ; it was Mme .
Albert rejoined his mother ; she was very pale .
The person to whom I addressed my scruples asked me where your father had acquired his property ?
“ So then , sir , ” said Morrel , “ you hold bills of mine ? ” “ Yes , and for a considerable sum. ” “ What is the amount ? ” asked Morrel with a voice he strove to render firm .
The Swiss received two wounds and was not aware of it , by reason of the cold ; but suddenly feebleness , occasioned by loss of blood , obliged him to sit down .
But D ’ Artagnan is devoid of such weaknesses .
I believe , on my soul , that they never mean to finish it. ” “ Oh , yes , they will ; only listen to that charming finale .
“ At least keep him there till my daughter be married. ” “ Impossible , madame ; justice has its formalities. ” “ What , even for me ? ” said the baroness , half jesting , half in earnest .
I am from the country. ” “ Which means that you know very little about the nonsense which here flows down our streets .
The dim light , the profound silence , and the gloomy thoughts inspired by the hour , and still more by her own conscience , all combined to produce a sensation of fear ; the poisoner was terrified at the contemplation of her own work .
Aramis uttered a cry of joy at the sight of the seal , kissed the superscription with an almost religious respect , and opened the epistle , which contained what follows : “ My Friend , it is the will of fate that we should be still for some time separated ; but the delightful days of youth are not lost beyond return .
So for the future I hope you will not be so destructive. ” Dantès raised his eyes to heaven and clasped his hands beneath the coverlet .
Nevertheless , he never borrowed a sou of his companions , although his purse was ever at their service ; and when he had played upon honor , he always awakened his creditor by six o ’ clock the next morning to pay the debt of the preceding evening .
“ To horse ! ” re-echoed Athos ; “ everything is arranged and decided. ” “ Now , gentlemen , ” cried the king , “ forward !
The cold gains upon me .
You , Edmond , on the contrary , —you are still young , handsome , dignified ; it is because you have had faith ; because you have had strength , because you have had trust in God , and God has sustained you .
They waited for ten minutes , during which time no noise was heard that might indicate that Grimaud was discovered , and at the expiration of that anxious interval the two men returned , closed the door after them , and repeating their orders that the servants should go to bed and extinguish their lights , disappeared .
“ Who wants me ? ” “ A man who will not tell his name , but who comes from the cardinal. ” “ And who wishes to speak with me ? ” “ Who wishes to speak to a lady recently come from Boulogne. ” “ Then let him come in , if you please. ” “ Oh , my God , my God ! ” cried Mme .
If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement , you must obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation , the manager of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark .
Morrel ’ s clear eye was for the moment clouded , then it shone with unusual lustre , and a large tear rolled down his cheek .
Chapter 25 .
From that glass door the pale-faced man went to the count ’ s bedroom and raised with a constricted hand the curtain of a window overlooking the courtyard .
I have no fear of ghosts , and I have never heard it said that so much harm had been done by the dead during six thousand years as is wrought by the living in a single day .
A large cloak was spread at the stern ; the officer requested her to sit down upon this cloak , and placed himself beside her .
It will be well to prepare a light supper , of which you , Athos and Aramis , are not to partake—Athos , because I told him you had a fever ; Aramis , because you are a knight of Malta and won ’ t mix with fellows like us .
“ Now that this marriage , which I know you so much disliked , is done away with , I come to you on an errand which neither M. de Villefort nor Valentine could consistently undertake. ” Noirtier ’ s eyes demanded the nature of her mission .
But tell me , count , will your people take care of my horse ? ” “ Do not alarm yourself , my dear Maximilian—they understand. ” “ I mean , because he wants petting .
“ Ah , cowards !
Behind the sentinel was a staircase with twenty steps .
I am quite bewildered , and it is natural that it should be so .
There was something so strange in these three words that everybody , except the king , shuddered .
The day before Franz had been presented to Madame de Saint-Méran , who had left her bed to receive him , but had been obliged to return to it immediately after .
“ Yes and no .
I will now go up into my apartment .
He had doublets cut out of his old clothes and cast-off cloaks for Mousqueton , and thanks to a very intelligent tailor , who made his clothes look as good as new by turning them , and whose wife was suspected of wishing to make Porthos descend from his aristocratic habits , Mousqueton made a very good figure when attending on his master .
Come , speak. ” “ Monsieur de Cavois. ” “ Monsieur de Cavois ? ” “ In person. ” “ The captain of the cardinal ’ s Guards ? ” “ Himself. ” “ Did he come to arrest me ? ” “ I have no doubt that he did , monsieur , for all his wheedling manner. ” “ Was he so sweet , then ? ” “ Indeed , he was all honey , monsieur. ” “ Indeed ! ” “ He came , he said , on the part of his Eminence , who wished you well , and to beg you to follow him to the Palais-Royal * . ” * It was called the Palais-Cardinal before Richelieu gave it to the King .
“ The Comte de la Fere ! ” she cried .
Bazin was stationed in the corridor , and barred his passage with the more intrepidity that , after many years of trial , Bazin found himself near a result of which he had ever been ambitious .
Well , you will follow me to the grave with the rank of captain. ” “ What have I , then , done to you , ” said Felton , much agitated , “ that you should load me with such a responsibility before God and before men ?
Doubtless , too , the horses on their part appreciated the eight hours of repose and the abundant stabling which was granted them .
“ What is the king doing ? ” they asked .
The Castle of Bragelonne .
“ Alas , monsieur , ” said she , “ that is too bad. ” “ What the devil do you see so bad in it ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ The gate is shut , ” said Aramis , “ but if these gentlemen like a cool retreat under the trees , and perfect seclusion , I will get the key from the Hotel de Rohan and we shall be well suited. ” D ’ Artagnan darted a look into the obscurity of the Place .
But you , my dear D ’ Artagnan , what has happened to you ? ” “ So that this strain of the knee , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ my dear Porthos , keeps you in bed ? ” “ My God , that ’ s all .
“ Mademoiselle Paulet has observed you , vicomte ; go and bow to her ; don ’ t try to appear anything but what you are , a true country youth ; on no account speak to her of Henry IV. ” “ When shall we two walk together ? ” Athos then said to Aramis .
They soon arrived at the silent , solitary inn .
“ Duke , you already know that it is not I who caused you to be written to. ” “ Yes , yes , madame !
“ Now , ” said the steward , “ what have you to tell me ? ” “ And you ? ” said Andrea .
he would not take them ? ” said he with slight emotion .
Porthos called him drunk , and the stranger drew his sword .
The door of the guardhouse opens , as you see. ” “ Yes , I see. ” “ They are about to send into our court , which Monsieur de Mazarin crosses on his way to the orangery , the two guards who attend him. ” “ There they are , coming out. ” “ If only they close the guardhouse door !
Dantès gazed on the man who could thus philosophically resign hopes so long and ardently nourished with an astonishment mingled with admiration .
To wait at Monte Cristo for the purpose of watching like a dragon over the almost incalculable riches that had thus fallen into his possession satisfied not the cravings of his heart , which yearned to return to dwell among mankind , and to assume the rank , power , and influence which are always accorded to wealth—that first and greatest of all the forces within the grasp of man .
Then he said to himself : “ I must put this to the test , but without compromising anybody .
I still assist at executions , but no longer strike the blow myself—no , indeed. ” “ You have , then , a repugnance to your profession ? ” “ So long as I struck in the name of the law and of justice my profession allowed me to sleep quietly , sheltered as I was by justice and law ; but since that terrible night when I became an instrument of private vengeance and when with personal hatred I raised the sword over one of God ’ s creatures—since that day—— ” The executioner paused and shook his head with an expression of despair .
I stepped into the shed , and it was fortunate I did so , for at that moment Caderousse entered with a stranger .
The only thing to mislead the investigator would have been belief in all the good things he said of himself .
“ Is the deed of sale ready ? ” “ Yes , count. ” “ Have you brought it ? ” “ Here it is. ” “ Very well ; and where is this house that I purchase ? ” asked the count carelessly , addressing himself half to Bertuccio , half to the notary .
“ Oh , no , your Excellency , he is not the devil , ” replied the host , with a grin of contempt ; “ for during his fainting we rummaged his valise and found nothing but a clean shirt and eleven crowns—which however , did not prevent his saying , as he was fainting , that if such a thing had happened in Paris , you should have cause to repent of it at a later period. ” “ Then , ” said the stranger coolly , “ he must be some prince in disguise. ” “ I have told you this , good sir , ” resumed the host , “ in order that you may be on your guard. ” “ Did he name no one in his passion ? ” “ Yes ; he struck his pocket and said , ‘ We shall see what Monsieur de Tréville will think of this insult offered to his _protégé_. ’ ” “ Monsieur de Tréville ? ” said the stranger , becoming attentive , “ he put his hand upon his pocket while pronouncing the name of Monsieur de Tréville ?
Let us see , for you know , my dear Captain , a judge must hear both sides. ” “ Good Lord !
“ Welcome among us , your excellency , ” he said to him ; “ you heard what the count just said , and also my reply ; let me add that I would not for the four thousand piastres at which I had fixed your friend ’ s ransom , that this had happened. ” “ But , ” said Franz , looking round him uneasily , “ where is the viscount ? —I do not see him. ” “ Nothing has happened to him , I hope , ” said the count frowningly .
“ Yes , madame , ” said the young man .
“ Hush ; he is enjoying a ride with Madame de Guemenee. ” The sergeant began to laugh .
“ Undoubtedly , madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan , taking the document and bowing , “ this is a noble reward ; but everything in the world is unstable , and the man who happened to fall into disgrace with your majesty might lose this office to-morrow. ” “ What more do you want ? ” asked the queen , coloring , as she found that she had to deal with a mind as subtle as her own .
And now go , Mordaunt. ” “ Before I go , ” said Mordaunt , “ I have some questions and a favor to ask you , sir. ” “ A favor from me ? ” Mordaunt bowed .
so much the worse for thee , for harm may come of it ! ” Meanwhile the cardinal was rubbing his hands in great satisfaction .
“ For us , also ? ” inquired Athos .
When I become quite motionless , cold , and rigid as a corpse , then , and not before , —be careful about this , —force open my teeth with the knife , pour from eight to ten drops of the liquor contained in the phial down my throat , and I may perhaps revive. ” “ Perhaps ! ” exclaimed Dantès in grief-stricken tones .
In five minutes three were slightly wounded , one on the hand , another on the ear , by the defender of the stair , who himself remained intact—a piece of skill which was worth to him , according to the rules agreed upon , three turns of favor .
D ’ Artagnan , Going to a Distance to discover Aramis .
“ In fact , ” said the cardinal , placing his hand upon a bundle of papers , “ I have here a whole pile which concerns you .
Oh , why did I not tell you all ?
Nobody has a higher opinion of the courage and skill of Athos than I have ; but I like better to hear my sword clang against lances than against staves .
The Count de Guiche was awakened at five o ’ clock in the morning by Raoul , who came to wish him good-day .
Perhaps one of those beloved ones he had so often thought of was thinking of him , and striving to diminish the distance that separated them .
A table , which had been covered with an elegant supper , was overturned .
“ Teresa uttered a cry of joy , and , without inquiring whence this attire came , or even thanking Luigi , darted into the grotto , transformed into a dressing-room .
Danglars threw himself upon his goat-skin , and Peppino , reclosing the door , again began eating his peas and bacon .
She was carried out of the hall , the thick veil which concealed her face dropped off , and Madame Danglars was recognized .
Poor dear man , he is innocence itself ! ” And something like a faint smile lighted the still-terrified features of the young woman .
The cardinal advanced to him with a smile and taking him by the hand led him into his study .
“ Are there , then , in England two men to whom such an epithet can be applied ? ” “ You mean George Villiers ? ” asked Felton , whose looks became excited .
It was Aramis who broke the silence .
“ Reflect that I am your wife ! ” “ You are a poisoner. ” “ In the name of Heaven ! ” “ No ! ” “ In the name of the love you once bore me ! ” “ No , no ! ” “ In the name of our child !
“ It is miserable—do you see ? —always to wait till the end of the month. ” “ Oh , ” said Andrea philosophically , determined to watch his companion narrowly , “ does not life pass in waiting ?
And therefore , when all Paris was rejoicing in the expected return of the king , appointed for the next day , Gondy alone , in the midst of the general happiness , was dissatisfied ; he sent for the two men whom he was wont to summon when in especially bad humor .
He was the first to jump on shore ; and had he dared , he would , like Lucius Brutus , have “ kissed his mother earth. ” It was dark , but at eleven o ’ clock the moon rose in the midst of the ocean , whose every wave she silvered , and then , “ ascending high , ” played in floods of pale light on the rocky hills of this second Pelion .
women !
Tonight , after twelve , I will come and see you , and you shall convince me. ” “ No , Felton , no , my brother , ” said she ; “ the sacrifice is too great , and I feel what it must cost you .
As he had said , it had been a long time since any one had needed him ; and that demand for his services on the part of Mazarin seemed to him an auspicious sign .
But the chief president had replied with his habitual coolness , without betraying either disturbance or surprise , that should the agitators refuse obedience to the king ’ s wishes he would have gallows erected in the public squares and proceed at once to hang the most active among them .
“ Go to your chamber , ” said she to Mme .
But the night was cold , dull , and rainy , and it was much more pleasant for a traveller to remain in the warm carriage than to put his head out of the window to make inquiries of a postilion whose only answer was “ _Non capisco_. ” 50241m Danglars therefore continued to sleep , saying to himself that he would be sure to awake at the posting-house .
Morrel reddened , for his own conscience was not quite clear on politics ; besides , what Dantès had told him of his interview with the grand-marshal , and what the emperor had said to him , embarrassed him .
Opinions held in common are a ready bond of union. ” “ Read again , ” said the old man .
I have something to say to you. ” “ Certainly , madame , ” said Porthos , winking to himself , as a gambler does who laughs at the dupe he is about to pluck .
Respect to Fallen Majesty .
A moment later Friquet went out , carrying in his hand a large leather bag ; he opened it as soon as he was outside the chamber and to his great astonishment found it full of gold .
Come , father ” added Dantès , “ put this money back in your box—unless neighbor Caderousse wants anything , and in that case it is at his service. ” “ No , my boy , no , ” said Caderousse .
I suffered frightful torments .
“ Oh , sir ” —said she , clasping her hands .
Never did a perverse nature declare itself more prematurely , and yet it was not owing to any fault in his bringing up .
He immediately fell backward .
He had a great desire to go to the window , but he dared not .
At this demand D ’ Artagnan gave his name very modestly , emphasized the title of compatriot , and begged the servant who had put the question to him to request a moment ’ s audience of M. de Tréville—a request which the other , with an air of protection , promised to transmit in due season .
At the same instant the firing began on the other side , and the balls penetrated the boards all round us .
Finally , as the hour for her interview with the count approached , Milady had everything about her darkened , and ordered Kitty to return to her own chamber , and introduce De Wardes whenever he presented himself .
For fear that anyone should be observing her return , she walked slowly ; and instead of immediately directing her steps towards the gate , she seated herself on a bench , and , carefully casting her eyes around , to convince herself that she was not watched , she presently arose , and proceeded quickly to join Maximilian .
At length an old , worm-eaten shutter was opened , or rather pushed ajar , but closed again as soon as the light from a miserable lamp which burned in the corner had shone upon the baldric , sword belt , and pistol pommels of D ’ Artagnan .
“ But you are able to have me arrested , you are able to have me tortured , you are able to have me hanged ; you are the master , and I could not have the least word to say .
Certainly , though Valentine still labored under dreadful nervous excitement , she was better ; and moreover , Monte Cristo had told him when , half distracted , he had rushed to the count ’ s house , that if she were not dead in two hours she would be saved .
“ I am in his Majesty ’ s Guards , monseigneur , and I have no reason to be dissatisfied. ” “ But it appears to me that my Guards—mine—are also his Majesty ’ s Guards ; and whoever serves in a French corps serves the king. ” “ Monseigneur , your Eminence has ill understood my words. ” “ You want a pretext , do you not ?
“ Yes. ” These three _yeses_ had been pronounced by Athos , each with a sadder intonation .
‘ Oh , make yourself easy on that head , ’ said Ali , smiling ; ‘ Selim and his flaming lance will settle that matter .
Dantès began to fear he had delayed too long ere he administered the remedy , and , thrusting his hands into his hair , continued gazing on the lifeless features of his friend .
Carmela was greatly troubled that she had not recognized him .
Yet thither it was that Dantès guided his vessel , and at Monte Cristo he arrived at the close of the second day ; his boat had proved herself a first-class sailor , and had come the distance from Genoa in thirty-five hours .
no !
Milady replied that she was too weak at present , and that her only desire was to be left alone .
Bonacieux was acquainted with all the turnings and windings of this part of the Louvre , appropriated for the people of the household .
These odors escaped from two deep dishes which were covered and placed on a stove , and from a copper pan placed in an old iron pot .
“ Shall I drive you back to Paris ? ” he asked .
He therefore looked forward to six o ’ clock with as much impatience as the duke himself .
“ Halloo , major !
You have managed my affairs so well that I ought to allow you all the time you require for your own .
I confess I am accustomed to priests of a very different appearance. ” “ Ah ! ” exclaimed De Guiche , “ you must understand that this is one of those wandering brothers , who go begging on the high road until some day a benefice falls down from Heaven on them ; they are mostly foreigners—Scotch , Irish or Danish .
The Count de Villeroy said that “ he did not know how any fear could be entertained for a moment , when the court had , to defend itself against the parliament and the citizens of Paris , his holiness the coadjutor , who by a signal could raise an army of curates , church porters and vergers. ” The Marechal de la Meilleraie added that in case the coadjutor should appear on the field of battle it would be a pity that he should not be distinguished in the melee by wearing a red hat , as Henry IV .
It has always been against the policy of despotic governments to suffer the victims of their persecutions to reappear .
Did you observe that man ’ s eyes while he was speaking to us ? ” “ No. ” “ But have you ever watched him carefully ? ” “ Doubtless he is capricious , but that is all ; one thing alone struck me , —of all the exquisite things he placed before us , he touched nothing .
“ Well ? ” she said at length , “ do you not answer me ? ” “ I have but one question to ask you , —what do you intend to do ? ” “ I was going to ask you , ” replied the baroness with a beating heart .
Cromwell is mighty , Mazarin is tricky , but I would rather have to do with them than with the late Monsieur Mordaunt. ” “ Ah ! ” said Porthos , “ it is very pleasant to be able to say ‘ the late Monsieur Mordaunt. ’ ” “ My faith , yes , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ From the queen , ” replied the servant .
I feel as though it would kill me to remain long near that dreadful man. ” So saying , Haydée arose , and wrapping herself in her burnouse of white cashmere embroidered with pearls and coral , she hastily quitted the box at the moment when the curtain was rising upon the fourth act .
And you , Grimaud , ” he said to his companion , who had just come in after his round with D ’ Artagnan , “ are you thirsty ? ” “ As thirsty as a Scotchman ! ” was Grimaud ’ s laconic reply .
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses .
The man was one of those Puritans , half preacher and half soldier , who swarmed around Cromwell .
The pompous procession therefore wended its way towards Père-Lachaise from the Faubourg Saint-Honoré .
She was in tears , and , strange as it was , in spite of the emotions he felt at the sight of these tears , he looked also at Madame de Villefort , and it appeared to him as if a slight gloomy smile had passed over her thin lips , like a meteor seen passing inauspiciously between two clouds in a stormy sky .
All the rest of the square was paved with heads .
On my return , Vasiliki and her daughter Haydée had disappeared. ’ — ‘ Did you know them ? ’ — ‘ My intimacy with the pasha and his unlimited confidence had gained me an introduction to them , and I had seen them above twenty times. ’ “ ‘ Have you any idea what became of them ? ’ — ‘ Yes , sir ; I heard they had fallen victims to their sorrow , and , perhaps , to their poverty .
The young man , standing up before her , gazed upon her with that filial affection which is so tender and endearing with children whose mothers are still young and handsome .
The manuscript was the great work by the Abbé Faria upon the kingdoms of Italy .
Then her hair assumed successively , under her skillful hands , all the undulations she thought might assist the charms of her face .
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ( “ the Foundation ” or PGLAF ) , owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works .
“ You said just now that you had a hundred friends. ” “ Very true , but you introduced me at M. Danglars ’ . ” “ Not at all !
“ Yes. ” “ And who is the man ? ” “ I do not know. ” “ Why did he not bring it to me here ? ” “ The messenger did not say. ” “ And where is the messenger ? ” “ He went away directly he saw me enter the ball-room to find you. ” “ Oh , ” said the countess to Franz , “ go with all speed—poor young man !
Woman is sacred ; the woman one loves is holy. ” “ On yourself , then , unhappy man ; on yourself ? ” “ I am the only guilty person , am I not ? ” said Maximilian .
“ Everything has succeeded as I expected ; spies , guards , satellites , all took me for you , and the king blesses you while waiting for you to bless him. ” “ May God protect you , my son ; for your example has given me at the same time hope and courage. ” Aramis resumed his own attire and left Juxon with the assurance that he might again have recourse to him .
“ Something more terrible , more fatal , more alarming for us—the child was , perhaps , alive , and the assassin may have saved it ! ” Madame Danglars uttered a piercing cry , and , seizing Villefort ’ s hands , exclaimed , “ My child was alive ? ” said she ; “ you buried my child alive ?
Four marble steps led down to the water ’ s edge , and below them was a boat floating on the tide .
Madame de Saint-Méran wished her daughter should be married there .
Chapter LXIII .
“ But do you think , ” asked Albert , “ that we ought to accept such offers from a perfect stranger ? ” “ What sort of person is this Count of Monte Cristo ? ” asked Franz of his host .
Believe me , the cord is more certain than the knife. ” Felton grew pale , and made a step forward , remembering that at the moment he entered Milady had a rope in her hand .
Her mistress was mad with love , intoxicated with joy .
It was useless to search at night , and Dantès therefore delayed all investigation until the morning .
Unfortunately , the hour was badly chosen for a private conference .
you are laughing at me. ” “ I understand .
But don ’ t fancy that I am going to take you on your bare word .
There he told the chief all—his affection for the prisoner , their promises of mutual fidelity , and how every night , since he had been near , they had met in some neighboring ruins .
The three friends were likewise greatly delighted .
Besides , whether at home or not , whether in Paris or Cairo , the abbé always left something to give away , which the valet distributed through this wicket in his master ’ s name .
Do you understand ? ” “ Perfectly. ” “ ‘ You will sell this diamond ; you will divide the money into five equal parts , and give an equal portion to these good friends , the only persons who have loved me upon earth. ’ ” “ But why into five parts ? ” asked Caderousse ; “ you only mentioned four persons. ” “ Because the fifth is dead , as I hear .
I present my letter from the queen to the superior , and I bring back the dear treasure I go to seek—not into Lorraine , not into Belgium , but to Paris , where she will be much better concealed , particularly while the cardinal is at La Rochelle .
It is men whom I should hold responsible , and I will hold them responsible. ” “ Be seated , Juxon , ” said the king , falling upon his knees .
“ He is to bring us five fresh horses—one for his eminence , four for us .
I had left Bearn when it arrived and I never received it until the month of April , 1647 ; and as the invitation was for September , 1646 , I couldn ’ t accept it .
“ I am rejoiced to hear you speak of Monsieur d ’ Emery as calculated for a post which requires a man of probity .
There is not one who has not treated me as the master of the house , —the only title I desire with respect to you ; there is not one , in fact , who would have dared to speak of me as I have spoken of them this day .
“ Ought we to go on ? ” asked Franz of the count ; “ or should we pause ? ” “ Let us go on ; Peppino will have warned the sentry of our coming. ” One of the two men was Peppino , and the other a bandit on the lookout .
Not a word was spoken , everyone seemed occupied , Franz with his disembarkment , the sailors with their sails , the smugglers with their goat ; but in the midst of all this carelessness it was evident that they mutually observed each other .
“ Let one of us put on the dress and mount the king ’ s horse .
“ I had only to cry out ‘ Help ! ’ for you and for your companions to be cut to pieces , and then I should have been free. ” “ Why didn ’ t you do it ? ” asked the lieutenant .
“ A retired baker ? ” asked the fruiteress .
You promised to obey me implicitly .
La Ramee continued : “ My lord has done me the honor to invite me to a supper to-morrow en tete-a-tete. ” Grimaud made a sign which meant that he didn ’ t see what that had to do with him .
So to-night , Mordaunt , go to Greenwich and ask for the captain of the felucca Lightning .
“ What would you have proposed , Maximilian , had you found me willing to accede ? ” “ It is not for me to say. ” “ You are wrong ; you must advise me what to do. ” “ Do you seriously ask my advice , Valentine ? ” “ Certainly , dear Maximilian , for if it is good , I will follow it ; you know my devotion to you. ” “ Valentine , ” said Morrel pushing aside a loose plank , “ give me your hand in token of forgiveness of my anger ; my senses are confused , and during the last hour the most extravagant thoughts have passed through my brain .
Wretched—wretched that I am ! ” “ Hallo , Catalan !
“ Aha ! ” “ What ? ” “ Blood ! ” At this word the three friends leaped from their horses and entered .
Are you going to rejoin your cardinal ?
I am , indeed , to be pitied .
“ Cardinal Mazarin ? ” said he .
M. Beauchamp , it holds four very well , will you accompany us ? ” “ Thank you , I have just returned from sea. ” “ What ?
You may copy it , give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org .
“ It is six o ’ clock , ” said Madame de Villefort , evidently agitated .
So , without losing time , tell me , have you the slightest idea whence this terrible blow proceeds ? ” “ I think I have some clew. ” “ But first tell me all the particulars of this shameful plot. ” Beauchamp proceeded to relate to the young man , who was overwhelmed with shame and grief , the following facts .
“ Immediately ? ” said Albert .
Dantès was then seized with an indescribable desire to know what was going on in the dungeon of his unfortunate friend .
All this must be prepared against .
“ Now , ” said he , “ the sacrifice is consummated !
That was five years ago .
Their agony formed part of their merit—if they were not seen alive , they were despised when dead. ” “ Yes , ” said Debray , “ but then Ostia is only a few leagues from Rome. ” “ True , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ but what would be the use of living eighteen hundred years after Lucullus , if we can do no better than he could ? ” The two Cavalcanti opened their enormous eyes , but had the good sense not to say anything .
His looking-glass had assured him , during his stay at Leghorn , that he ran no risk of recognition ; moreover , he had now the means of adopting any disguise he thought proper .
While we are forgetting them , they are falling into their appointed order ; and when , again , our attention is directed to them , we are surprised at the progress they have made towards the proposed end .
You may behave politely to the bearer , who is a count and a grandee of Spain !
good-day , dear friend ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
“ Where do we go first ? ” “ To Calais , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ that is the most direct line to London. ” “ Well , ” said Porthos , “ this is my advice— ” “ Speak ! ” “ Four men traveling together would be suspected .
“ If Porthos were on his legs , he would have rejoined us by this time , ” said Athos .
Believe me , that she who alone recognized you has been the only one to comprehend you ; and had she crossed your path , and you had crushed her like glass , still , Edmond , still she must have admired you !
You see , your friends are wakeful .
You , who speak English like John Bull himself , are Master Tom Lowe , we , your three companions .
So many times , in order to follow Valentine in thought at every hour in the day , had he made her describe the whole house , that without having seen it he knew it all .
He is neither a gentleman in manner nor in feeling , but a sort of buffoon , a punchinello , a pantaloon .
However , the revolution which appeared upon his countenance was so visible that Bonacieux was terrified at it , and he endeavored to draw back a step or two ; but as he was standing before the half of the door which was shut , the obstacle compelled him to keep his place .
what are the Turks to such men as the Comte de la Fere and the Abbé d ’ Herblay ? ” “ Ah , his friend is with him ? ” said Raoul .
sir ! ” “ Can you be a coward ? ” continued Villefort , with increasing excitement , “ you , who could count , one by one , the minutes of four death agonies ?
“ Be satisfied , beautiful Constance .
As night closed in they arrived at Thirsk .
The work of revolt continued the whole night thus .
God is always the last resource .
Chapter IX .
that name written in her hand. ” “ You see , then , ” said Athos , “ there is a god in heaven still ! ” Chapter LXIV .
He did not even give himself the trouble to dissemble , and displayed it with affectation before the queen .
“ Really , ” said she , “ I believe you now begin to hesitate. ” “ No , I do not hesitate ; but I really pity this poor Comte de Wardes , since you have ceased to love him .
“ Ah , ” said he , “ they have sent some fencing-master to fight with me. ” The president , without answering , approached the witness who held the lantern , and raising his sleeve , showed him two wounds he had received in his arm ; then opening his coat , and unbuttoning his waistcoat , displayed his side , pierced with a third wound .
“ But that is not all , ” continued Danglars ; “ he has opened an account with my house for his son. ” “ May I ask how much he allows the young man ? ” “ Five thousand francs per month. ” “ Sixty thousand francs per year .
Noble Natures never lose Courage , nor good Stomachs their Appetites .
good heavens , madame , ” said the count , “ are you ill , or is it the heat of the room that affects you ? ” “ Are you ill , mother ? ” cried the viscount , springing towards her .
Why should I ? ” “ But still there are some signals only addressed to you. ” “ Certainly. ” “ And do you understand them ? ” “ They are always the same. ” “ And they mean—— ” “ ‘ _Nothing new ; You have an hour ; _ ’ or ‘ _Tomorrow_. ’ ” “ This is simple enough , ” said the count ; “ but look , is not your correspondent putting itself in motion ? ” “ Ah , yes ; thank you , sir. ” “ And what is it saying—anything you understand ? ” “ Yes ; it asks if I am ready. ” “ And you reply ? ” “ By the same sign , which , at the same time , tells my right-hand correspondent that I am ready , while it gives notice to my left-hand correspondent to prepare in his turn. ” “ It is very ingenious , ” said the count .
In spite of all appearances , be so kind , therefore , as to finish your duty by fulfilling the formalities described by law. ” “ Let the irons be heated , ” said the doctor ; “ but really it is a useless precaution. ” This order to heat the irons made Dantès shudder .
A firm and well-practised hand was engaged in cutting the four sides of a pane of glass with a diamond .
I had designedly taken this direction .
He was now a lieutenant .
The road , as D ’ Artagnan had observed , was the way to Blois .
Then he added , with a smile yet more terrible than his anger , “ It is true , then ; you do not deny it ! ” She moved forward .
The stranger advanced slowly , and as he advanced , after entering into the circle of light projected by the lamp , Milady involuntarily drew back .
Die ?
And it will be even a disadvantage to you ; a left-handed man is very troublesome to people who are not prepared for it .
“ Come , Hermine , ” he said , after a short time , “ answer candidly , —something vexes you—is it not so ? ” 30239m “ Nothing , ” answered the baroness .
Every time I see you is a fresh diamond which I enclose in the casket of my heart .
He arrived at this end by his persistence in accusation .
He then motioned to his wife to take leave .
Imprisonment , menaces , ill treatment—she has suffered everything .
My father , who never goes out , has several times been on the point of refusing this invitation ; Madame de Villefort , on the contrary , is burning with the desire of seeing this extraordinary nabob in his own house , therefore , she has with great difficulty prevailed on my father to accompany her .
He must know where his master is ! ” “ Without a doubt he must. ” D ’ Artagnan thought for a moment , then took his sword and put on his cloak to go out .
And you ? ” “ I am Lord de Winter , Baron Sheffield. ” “ Well , then , I am your servant , Monsieur Baron , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ though you have names rather difficult to recollect. ” And touching his horse with the spur , he cantered back to Paris .
Never did a man deeply in love allow the clocks to go on peacefully .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the cardinal , sitting down on a fauteuil , “ you have always seemed to me to be a brave and honorable man. ” “ Possibly , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ but he has taken a long time to let me know his thoughts ; ” nevertheless , he bowed to the very ground in gratitude for Mazarin ’ s compliment .
“ ‘ Now , then , ’ cried Carlini , rising in his turn , and approaching the corpse , his hand on the butt of one of his pistols , ‘ does anyone dispute the possession of this woman with me ? ’ “ ‘ No , ’ returned the chief , ‘ she is thine. ’ “ Carlini raised her in his arms , and carried her out of the circle of firelight .
“ ‘ Well , ’ inquired the jeweller , ‘ is the cash all right ? ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ said Caderousse .
But here is M. Dandré himself ; ” and M. Dandré , announced by the chamberlain-in-waiting , entered .
One morning he threatened her with the severest consequences if she did not supply him with what he desired , and disappeared and remained away all day , leaving the kind-hearted Assunta , who loved him as if he were her own child , to weep over his conduct and bewail his absence .
One would have said that his gaze could pierce the branches of trees which limited his horizon .
We went by Bologna , Perugia , and Rome. ” “ Ah , yes—true , mademoiselle , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo as if this simple explanation was sufficient to revive the recollection he sought .
Oh , no , he has plunged a thousand daggers into my heart , tragedy-weapons , I own , which instead of wounding sheathe their points in their own handles , but daggers which he nevertheless believed to be real and deadly. ” “ Jealousy indicates affection. ” “ True ; but I am not jealous. ” “ He is. ” “ Of whom ? —of Debray ? ” “ No , of you. ” “ Of me ?
“ A gentleman , and a diplomatist. ” “ Then we shall have to wait two hours for the gentleman , and three for the diplomatist .
But he was a man of stone .
I shall retire and die tranquilly—at home. ” “ For my part , ” said Porthos , “ I desire to be made a baron. ” “ You shall be one. ” “ And have you not seen any of our other friends ? ” “ Yes , I have seen Aramis. ” “ And what does he wish ?
“ And my only heir , are you not ? ” said Lord de Winter in his turn , fixing his eyes on those of Milady .
The prisoners belong to those who take them and not to those who only saw them taken .
“ I have not failed to do so , your Reverences , ” replied the young man , returning their salutation .
D ’ Artagnan remembered having seen this ring on the finger of Milady ; it was a magnificent sapphire , encircled with brilliants .
Why , they want to know if the Duke of Buckingham is in Paris , and if he has had , or is likely to have , an interview with the queen. ” D ’ Artagnan held onto this idea , which , from what he had heard , was not wanting in probability .
I am rich enough , forsooth , to distribute his authority on this occasion. ” The count recalled Baptistin , who had left the room after delivering the letter .
He came last , clothed in his splendid robes and holding in his hand the carbine which your emperor presented him .
“ I have the misfortune also to admire his poetry exceedingly. ” “ Monsieur Scarron , do me the honor , ” said Raoul , blushing , “ to tell me the name of that young lady whose opinion seems so different from that of others of the company. ” “ Ah !
At length a fresh discharge was heard , and this time the balls came rattling among the stones around the four friends , and whistling sharply in their ears .
“ Debray ! ” muttered Albert .
“ When does M. d ’ Épinay return ? ” “ We expect him every moment. ” “ It is well .
After which , the cardinal , who had been informed that D ’ Artagnan was arrested and who was anxious to see him , took leave of the king , inviting him to come the next day to view the work already done upon the dyke .
for instance , the former servingman of some brave gentleman , an enemy himself to Mazarin , as every gentleman ought to be. ” “ Hush !
Aramis received a ball which passed through his shoulder , and Mousqueton another ball which lodged in the fleshy part which prolongs the lower portion of the loins .
Porthos paid his compliments to M. Coquenard and bade him farewell .
“ It was not your opinion that I asked , ” said the queen , sharply , without even turning around .
Eventually she was obliged to leave France .
“ Oh , heavens ! ” exclaimed Morrel , “ I do not deceive myself—that young man who is waving his hat , that youth in the uniform of a lieutenant , is Albert de Morcerf ! ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I recognized him. ” “ How so ? —you were looking the other way. ” 50209m The count smiled , as he was in the habit of doing when he did not want to make any reply , and he again turned towards the veiled woman , who soon disappeared at the corner of the street .
So no more delay , no more hesitation ; or else whatever may be my repugnance to soiling my sword a second time with the blood of a wretch like you , I swear by my faith as an honest man— ” and at these words D ’ Artagnan made so fierce a gesture that the wounded man sprang up .
Besides , one must lay out one ’ s inheritance somehow. ” “ Ah , Porthos ! ” cried one of his companions , “ don ’ t try to make us believe you obtained that baldric by paternal generosity .
“ You arrive in good time , monsieur , ” said the king , who , when his passions were raised to a certain point , could not dissemble ; “ I have learned some fine things concerning your Musketeers. ” “ And I , ” said Tréville , coldly , “ I have some pretty things to tell your Majesty concerning these gownsmen. ” “ What ? ” said the king , with hauteur .
Will you have the goodness , sir , should you receive news from Blois , to send me a few lines about my little friend Mademoiselle de la Valliere , about whose health , when we left , so much anxiety was felt ?
Madame Danglars was chatting at a short distance with Debray , Beauchamp , and Château-Renaud .
Yes , as you said , you are indeed wretched and a miracle alone can cure you .
But bear in mind , that should there fall in your way anyone guilty of conspiring against the government , you will be so much the more bound to visit the offence with rigorous punishment , as it is known you belong to a suspected family. ” “ Alas , madame , ” returned Villefort , “ my profession , as well as the times in which we live , compels me to be severe .
“ My son ! ” exclaimed Athos , pressing him in his arms .
“ Make haste , dear lodger , ” said he ; “ there is a very pretty girl waiting for you upstairs ; and you know women don ’ t like to be kept waiting. ” “ That ’ s Kitty ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself , and darted into the passage .
Sir , sir , ” cried he , turning to Noirtier , “ do what you can—make me understand in some way ! ” “ Yes , ” replied Noirtier .
“ Hold your tongue , ” said he , “ and let me answer .
The cry of terror which was stopped on Noirtier ’ s lips , seemed to start from his eyes .
Pistache went again around the circle , but stopped at no one , and at last went to the door and began to scratch and bark .
Oh , traitors that ye are ! ” “ Sire , ” said Athos , “ this is not a moment for recrimination , but a time to show yourself a king and a gentleman .
“ Apropos , ” continued he , “ Franz is coming soon , but it will not interest you ; you dislike him , I think ? ” “ I ? ” said Monte Cristo ; “ my dear viscount , how have you discovered that I did not like M. Franz !
Dantès easily recognized them , Faria had so often drawn them for him .
“ You may , madame , ” said he , with emphasis .
Sometimes she is accompanied by the person who is now with her , and at others she is merely attended by a black servant. ” “ And what do you think of her personal appearance ? ” “ Oh , I consider her perfectly lovely—she is just my idea of what Medora must have been. ” Franz and the countess exchanged a smile , and then the latter resumed her conversation with Albert , while Franz returned to his previous survey of the house and company .
The cups of coffee were all prepared , with the addition of sugar , which had been brought for Albert .
A fanatic has just assassinated him. ” “ Ah , ” said Rochefort , with a smile ; “ this is a fortunate chance—one that will delight his Eminence !
“ Do not be angry , we can try it. ” Caderousse went to the window , touched the glass with it , and found it would cut .
Now , as they had already traveled eleven leagues , D ’ Artagnan thought it time to stop , whether Porthos were or were not in the inn .
“ He is alone , ” said Grimaud .
When he had gone , Monte Cristo breathed a profound sigh , and said : “ Enough of this poison , let me now seek the antidote. ” Then sounding his bell , he said to Ali , who entered : “ I am going to madame ’ s chamber—have the carriage ready at one o ’ clock. ” Chapter 49 .
He gained just twelve hours by this engagement ; he was to be back on the sixteenth day , by eight o ’ clock in the evening .
“ The grass had grown very thickly there during the summer , and when autumn arrived no one had been there to mow it .
Milady , who had arisen , threw herself quickly into the armchair , her head thrown back , her beautiful hair unbound and disheveled , her bosom half bare beneath her crumpled lace , one hand on her heart , and the other hanging down .
I have it with me. ” The sharp gaze of Caderousse was instantly directed towards the priest ’ s garments , as though hoping to discover the location of the treasure .
“ And now you are assembled , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ permit me to offer you my apologies. ” At this word _apologies_ , a cloud passed over the brow of Athos , a haughty smile curled the lip of Porthos , and a negative sign was the reply of Aramis .
“ Your horses are ready saddled in their stables , are they not ? ” he said , turning to D ’ Artagnan .
It is true we plundered them a little when we took them , and I will even confess that it is their purse that Monsieur du Vallon and I draw on in our nightly play .
“ Ah , ” exclaimed d ’ Avrigny , in a voice in which the horror of a judge unveiling the truth was mingled with the delight of a student making a discovery .
Her reason told her that all the visions she beheld were but the children of her imagination , and the conviction was strengthened by the fact that in the morning no traces remained of the nocturnal phantoms , who disappeared with the coming of daylight .
He did so , and thus doubled his income .
The latter , to make a short cut , had appeared on a sluice .
and how he terrified them , even then , and made them fly before him !
“ You here , sir ! ” he exclaimed ; “ do you , then , never appear but to act as an escort to death ? ” Busoni turned around , and , perceiving the excitement depicted on the magistrate ’ s face , the savage lustre of his eyes , he understood that the revelation had been made at the assizes ; but beyond this he was ignorant .
Each step he trod oppressed his heart with fresh emotion ; his first and most indelible recollections were there ; not a tree , not a street , that he passed but seemed filled with dear and cherished memories .
He then went out backward , and when he was in the antechamber the cardinal heard him , in his enthusiasm , crying aloud , “ Long life to the Monseigneur !
“ Excuse me , my lord , ” said the lad ; “ but will you have the kindness to wait a moment ? ” “ What for , Philip ? ” asked Albert , who , being a constant visitor there , did not understand this opposition to his entrance .
And now leave me , Monsieur Bertuccio , to walk alone here in the garden .
What a confounded country this England is !
He found Tréville in a joyful mood .
Mounting on the breach , with his musket in one hand and his hat in the other , he said , bowing courteously and addressing the soldiers and the pioneers , who , astonished at this apparition , stopped fifty paces from the bastion : “ Gentlemen , a few friends and myself are about to breakfast in this bastion .
“ Yes , madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but get in fearlessly , for I myself will drive you. ” The queen uttered a cry of surprise and entered the carriage , and the king and monsieur took their places at her side .
“ I believe with your Majesty that Monsieur de Tréville ’ s guarantee is more than sufficient. ” Tréville bowed very respectfully , with a joy that was not unmixed with fear ; he would have preferred an obstinate resistance on the part of the cardinal to this sudden yielding .
You believed that you would fly from me by returning to Paris ; you believed that I would not dare to quit the treasure over which my master had charged me to watch .
Uncertainty is worse than all. ” “ Go on with the lights , ” said the inspector .
As he struck the wall , pieces of stucco similar to that used in the ground work of arabesques broke off , and fell to the ground in flakes , exposing a large white stone .
He will arrange everything for me .
Haven ’ t you some one who will relieve me of my horse ? ” Groslow whistled and a sailor appeared .
“ That will do me great honor , ” said the leader of the posse , “ and I accept thankfully. ” “ Then to yours , monsieur—what is your name ? ” “ Boisrenard. ” “ Monsieur Boisrenard. ” “ To yours , my gentlemen !
Alas , my dear mother , some have suffered so much , and yet live , and have raised a new fortune on the ruin of all the promises of happiness which heaven had made them—on the fragments of all the hope which God had given them !
As for himself , he declared that he had only need of a little rest , and that when they returned he should be easier .
I am not allowed to see you , madame , but you shall every day hear of me .
The coadjutor bowed and left the palace , casting upon the cardinal such a glance as is best understood by mortal foes .
He continued : “ So I was going away , but he called me back .
( “ He were a dead man ” said the Gascon , “ if there were still a Vitry at the court and if Vitry entered at this moment ; but for my part , before he could reach the good prelate I would kill Vitry at once ; the cardinal would be infinitely pleased with me. ” “ Hush ! ” said Porthos ; “ listen. ” ) “ Madame , ” cried the cardinal , seizing hold of Anne and drawing her back , “ Madame , what are you about ? ” Then he added in Spanish , “ Anne , are you mad ?
Standing well at court , whether the king regnant was of the older or younger branch , whether the government was doctrinaire liberal , or conservative ; looked upon by all as a man of talent , since those who have never experienced a political check are generally so regarded ; hated by many , but warmly supported by others , without being really liked by anybody , M. de Villefort held a high position in the magistracy , and maintained his eminence like a Harlay or a Molé .
In one hour after , the ordinance was published in London that no vessel bound for France should leave port , not even the packet boat with letters .
“ Well , I will go to England a second time ; I will go and find Buckingham. ” “ You shall not do that , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , coolly .
“ No mysteries , no cloak to hide one ’ s self in , no cunning policy here ; people laugh outright , they weep for joy here .
Forsooth !
While his horses were impatiently pawing the ground , held in by the coachman , who had been seated a quarter of an hour on his box , the elegant phaeton with which we are familiar rapidly turned the angle of the entrance-gate , and cast out on the doorsteps M. Andrea Cavalcanti , as decked up and gay as if he were going to marry a princess .
“ Can ’ t you guess , my dear Athos ?
Besides , what would the sailors say ?
As to Porthos , except his real name ( as was the case with those of his two comrades ) , his life was very easily known .
“ Well , ” said the latter , “ a young woman of about twenty-six or twenty-eight years of age , and a man of from thirty-five to forty , have indeed lodged at the two houses pointed out by your Eminence ; but the woman left last night , and the man this morning. ” “ It was they ! ” cried the cardinal , looking at the clock ; “ and now it is too late to have them pursued .
No .
Then his eye was fixed on the drawer of a small chest between the windows .
Planchet was more courageous , it must be admitted , by day than by night .
I made them , but you know , my dear friend , Madame du Vallon—— ” Porthos , in pronouncing these words , seemed to gulp down something .
“ Do I know ? ” said he ; “ and do you believe that if I knew I would relate to you all its trials and all its adventures as would a dramatist or a novel writer ?
my young vicomte , ” replied Scarron , “ I suppose you wish to propose to her an alliance offensive and defensive. ” Raoul blushed again .
He arrived ; Valentine was expecting him .
“ Ah !
Yet I let him die !
Scarcely had I covered it with earth , when the arm of the Corsican was stretched towards me ; I saw a shadow rise , and , at the same time , a flash of light .
M. de Tréville had spoken of her to the queen .
So now , I breathe again—I am happy ! ” “ Don ’ t be in haste to celebrate a victory , Porthos , ” interposed D ’ Artagnan ; “ never have we incurred a greater danger than we are now encountering .
What a noise about a Musketeer !
had surrounded himself , this second , or rather this first king of France , became desirous that he , too , should have his guard .
No , no , do not be deceived ; this was murder in every sense of the word. ” “ And who thus designated it ? ” “ The king himself. ” “ The king !
Then an invincible and extreme terror seized upon him , and he dared not again press the hand that hung out of bed , he dared no longer to gaze on those fixed and vacant eyes , which he tried many times to close , but in vain—they opened again as soon as shut .
I have no longer the strength to do anything but to spend my days in prayer .
I have but one promise and but one heart to give ; that promise is pledged to you , that heart is also yours .
And pray upon what shall I make my campaign ; upon Grimaud ? ” “ I have brought you another , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ You watch while I sleep and you have come to bring me some news ? ” “ Alas , sire , ” answered Athos , “ your majesty has guessed aright. ” “ It is bad news ? ” “ Yes , sire. ” “ Never mind ; the messenger is welcome .
They were making nearly ten knots an hour .
As for Winter , at the sound of that voice he turned pale , and was , as it were , petrified .
“ How long a start have they ? ” “ Two hours and a quarter , my officer. ” “ Two hours and a quarter—that is nothing ; we are well mounted , are we not , Porthos ? ” Porthos breathed a sigh ; he thought of what was in store for his poor horses .
“ Yes , my lord , ” answered the man .
Upon my honor and by the holy cross ; I only regret it because she was a woman. ” “ The most satisfactory part of the matter , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ is that there remains no trace of it. ” “ She had a son , ” observed Athos .
He awaited Mazarin ’ s promised visit to get some light on his present situation .
“ Eh !
“ That woman—that woman ! ” “ Which ? ” “ The one with a white dress and so many diamonds—the fair one. ” “ Madame Danglars ? ” “ I do not know her name ; but it is she , sir , it is she ! ” “ Whom do you mean ? ” “ The woman of the garden ! —she that was _enceinte_—she who was walking while she waited for—— ” Bertuccio stood at the open door , with his eyes starting and his hair on end .
But what astonished Franz , who had treated Gaetano ’ s description as a fable , was the splendor of the apartment in which he found himself .
No , I spoke of the Duchess de Chevreuse ; did you see her after her return from Brussels , after the king ’ s death ? ” “ Yes , she is still beautiful. ” “ Yes , ” said Aramis , “ I saw her also at that time .
Morcerf had expected he should be the guide ; on the contrary , it was he who , under the count ’ s guidance , followed a course of archæology , mineralogy , and natural history .
The same evening the grocer or grocers , druggist or druggists , come and say , ‘ It was I who sold the arsenic to the gentleman ; ’ and rather than not recognize the guilty purchaser , they will recognize twenty .
Twice he was obliged to step back ; his opponent stirred not one inch .
Only we conspire against the Rochellais. ” “ Ah , you gentlemen of policy ! ” replied the cardinal , knitting his brow in his turn , “ the secret of many unknown things might perhaps be found in your brains , if we could read them as you read that letter which you concealed as soon as you saw me coming. ” The color mounted to the face of Athos , and he made a step toward his Eminence .
Bonacieux had named Mandé because Mandé was in an exactly opposite direction from St .
That glance was so sharp that it penetrated the heart of Mazarin , who , reading in it a declaration of war , seized D ’ Artagnan by the arm and said : “ If occasion requires , monsieur , you will remember that man who has just gone out , will you not ? ” “ Yes , my lord , ” he replied .
At this instant they heard the sound of horses ’ feet .
The night is gloomy , and the Tiber is very near the Via Macello. ” Franz felt a shudder run through his veins at observing that the feeling of the duke and the countess was so much in unison with his own personal disquietude .
Do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
Let the queen remain in perfect security ; let her be ignorant that we know her secret .
Then , my son , return to the world still more brilliant because of your former sorrows ; and if I am wrong , still let me cherish these hopes , for I have no future to look forward to .
“ It seems the fellow had been caught wandering nearer to the harem of the Bey of Tunis than etiquette permits to one of his color , and he was condemned by the Bey to have his tongue cut out , and his hand and head cut off ; the tongue the first day , the hand the second , and the head the third .
I could not have killed her by the same blow , —I should have fled from my country. ” “ Dear Albert , ” said Beauchamp .
“ Yes , ” continued Athos , “ four times only ; once at the house of Monsieur Créquy ; another time at my own house in the country , in my château at—when I had a château ; a third time at Monsieur de Tréville ’ s where it surprised us all ; and the fourth time at a cabaret , where it fell to my lot , and where I lost a hundred louis and a supper on it. ” “ Then Monsieur takes his horse back again , ” said the Englishman .
“ No , Hermine , ” replied Debray ; “ you can not make me believe that ; on the contrary , you were in excellent spirits when you arrived at the count ’ s .
“ No , my lord ; be assured we shall not. ” D ’ Artagnan thought it was now time for him to join in the conversation .
“ The Comte de la Fere. ” “ Athos !
Look , behind this wall , ” said De Comminges , knocking against the wall .
He was seeking in his mind , then , for the least awkward means of retreat , when he remarked that Aramis had let his handkerchief fall , and by mistake , no doubt , had placed his foot upon it .
Will that do ? ” “ Yes. ” “ What are you looking at ? ” “ I am looking at you ; indeed you are adorable like that !
He thanked him with grateful cordiality for his kindly welcome , although he must at that moment have been suffering bitterly to find another dungeon where he had fondly reckoned on discovering a means of regaining his liberty .
“ Can you imagine , ” said Monte Cristo , “ some Othello or Abbé de Ganges , one stormy , dark night , descending these stairs step by step , carrying a load , which he wishes to hide from the sight of man , if not from God ? ” Madame Danglars half fainted on the arm of Villefort , who was obliged to support himself against the wall .
“ Let go—and clue up ! ” At this last command all the sails were lowered , and the vessel moved almost imperceptibly onwards .
Have no more concern about me ; I exist no longer for you , any more than if you had never seen me. ” “ Must Aramis do as much as I , madame ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , deeply piqued .
She opened her eyes , and saw the abbess , accompanied by a young woman with light hair and delicate complexion , who fixed upon her a look full of benevolent curiosity .
Then the duke put to Pistache this difficult question , who was the greatest thief in the world ?
Now I repeat , my father is named M. de Villefort , and I am ready to prove it. ” There was an energy , a conviction , and a sincerity in the manner of the young man , which silenced the tumult .
But I have seen things so extraordinary , that what you tell me seems less astonishing than it otherwise might. ” “ Mercédès was at first in the deepest despair at the blow which deprived her of Edmond .
“ It is well as it is ; say no more about it. ” “ At least you should tell me what I should have to do in London , ” replied Bonacieux , who remembered a little too late that Rochefort had desired him to endeavor to obtain his wife ’ s secrets .
The baron was completely roused .
Where were we ? ” “ I recollect you were saying , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that after having demanded my head of the cardinal , Milady had quit the shores of France .
‘ Ah , ’ said I , after four hours ’ work , ‘ since we are sinking , let us sink ; we can die but once. ’ ‘ Is that the example you set , Penelon ? ’ cries the captain ; ‘ very well , wait a minute. ’ He went into his cabin and came back with a brace of pistols .
Porthos fancied they were mystifying him , and began to curl his mustache and knit his eyebrows ; but the knee of Mme .
Can this be another vengeance of that woman ? ” It was now Athos who turned pale .
Well , here I am ; be satisfied .
D ’ Artagnan and his two companions turned their backs , and commenced a retreat which resembled a flight .
Arras was encumbered with fugitives .
When they had advanced about twenty yards , Danglars looked back and saw Fernand stoop , pick up the crumpled paper , and putting it into his pocket then rush out of the arbor towards Pillon .
Oh , would we could relate it everywhere , and to everyone , so that the emotion of our unknown benefactor might reveal his presence. ” “ Ah , really , ” said Monte Cristo in a half-stifled voice .
The young Louis was already dressed , with the exception of his shoes and doublet ; he had allowed himself to be dressed , in great astonishment , overwhelming Laporte with questions , who replied only in these words , “ Sire , it is by the queen ’ s commands. ” The bedclothes were thrown back , exposing the king ’ s bed linen , which was so worn that here and there holes could be seen .
“ Ah , you frighten me .
“ Gad ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ he has already given me good information and he may do the same again. ” Whilst all this was going on , Athos and Aramis were entering Paris by the Faubourg St. Antoine .
Why , you sell yourself , body and soul , to the demon , the devil , for money ! ” “ No , to the cardinal. ” “ It ’ s the same thing , ” cried the young woman .
Why has he not painted a spot upon his heart ? —it would have been more simple. ” Meanwhile Albert had arrived within ten paces of the group formed by the five young men .
Porthos was in bed , and was playing a game at _lansquenet_ with Mousqueton , to keep his hand in ; while a spit loaded with partridges was turning before the fire , and on each side of a large chimneypiece , over two chafing dishes , were boiling two stewpans , from which exhaled a double odor of rabbit and fish stews , rejoicing to the smell .
“ At the language you use. ” “ What do you find so astonishing in that language ? ” said Milady , smiling .
“ Come , come , choose your part , ” replied Jussac .
“ How do I know ? ” replied Danglars ; “ gone , as every prudent man ought to be , to look after his own affairs , most likely .
“ Héloïse , Héloïse ! ” he said , “ what is the matter ?
The peasant , the gardener , was Rochefort , whom he believed to be in the Bastile .
He did seek , and has found him , apparently , since he is here now ; and , finally , my friend apprised me of your coming , and gave me a few other instructions relative to your future fortune .
They announced to all their comrades that they had seen the king and that the queen had spoken to them ; and , in fact , they went away quite proud and happy. ” “ Oh , the miserable wretches ! ” murmured the queen , “ they shall pay dearly for their boldness , and it is I who promise this. ” Then turning to D ’ Artagnan , she said : “ Sir , you have given me this evening the best advice I have ever received .
You are my friend today ; tomorrow you will be no more to me than a shadow , or rather , even , you will no longer exist .
It was , however , too late ; Albert had followed the footman , and , hearing the order given , forced the door open , and followed by Beauchamp found himself in the banker ’ s study .
I am sorry to have had anything to do with this matter .
“ Alas , ” replied he , “ it is dreadful thus to hear my condemnation from your own lips .
“ Everything. ” “ Count , ” said Albert , in a low tone to Monte Cristo , “ do allow the signora to tell me something of her history .
“ How they must be asking , ‘ Where is the cardinal ? ’ ‘ What has become of the minister ? ’ ‘ Where has the favorite gone ? ’ How they must be looking for monseigneur in all corners !
On the staircase they met a beautiful girl of sixteen or seventeen , who looked with anxiety at the stranger .
Now I recollect—— ” “ What ? ” “ To have seen them both sitting at table together under an arbor at Père Pamphile ’ s the evening before the day fixed for my wedding .
D ’ Artagnan and Athos looked at each other for some time in silence .
“ Why did you so maladroitly restore me the handkerchief ? ” “ Why did you so awkwardly let it fall ? ” “ I have said , monsieur , and I repeat , that the handkerchief did not fall from my pocket. ” “ And thereby you have lied twice , monsieur , for I saw it fall. ” “ Ah , you take it with that tone , do you , Master Gascon ?
“ Decidedly , this is a clever fellow , ” murmured Athos .
The chancellor advanced , therefore , toward Anne of Austria , and said with a very perplexed and embarrassed air , “ And now it remains for me to make the principal examination. ” “ What is that ? ” asked the queen , who did not understand , or rather was not willing to understand .
Then , as Lord Leven and the other chieftains recoiled before this unexpected rescue , which seemed to come from Heaven for the prince they already thought was their prisoner , Athos and Aramis dragged the king from the perjured assembly into which he had so imprudently ventured , and throwing themselves on horseback all three returned at full gallop to the royal tent .
But he was unable to complete this oath , for two days afterwards , in an encounter with the Roman carbineers , Carlini was killed .
“ Your majesty , ” continued the coadjutor , pitilessly , “ is about to take such measures as seem good to you , but I foresee that they will be violent and such as will still further exasperate the rioters. ” “ In that case , you , monsieur le coadjuteur , who have such power over them and are at the same time friendly to us , ” said the queen , ironically , “ will quiet them by bestowing your blessing upon them. ” “ Perhaps it will be too late , ” said Gondy , still unmoved ; “ perhaps I shall have lost all influence ; while by giving up Broussel your majesty will strike at the root of the sedition and will gain the right to punish severely any revival of the revolt. ” “ Have I not , then , that right ? ” cried the queen .
“ But no matter ; since it is at the same time the opinion of D ’ Artagnan and of Athos , it must be the best. ” “ But , ” said Aramis , “ shall we not be suspected by Colonel Harrison ? ” “ Egad ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ he ’ s just the man I count upon .
“ I know him well there !
This letter told Buckingham that the city was at an extremity ; but instead of adding , “ If your succor does not arrive within fifteen days , we will surrender , ” it added , quite simply , “ If your succor comes not within fifteen days , we shall all be dead with hunger when it comes. ” The Rochellais , then , had no hope but in Buckingham .
“ For you , ” he said .
“ But , at least , tell me where he is , that I may know whether he is alive or dead , ” said she .
This woman is certainly a great liar .
Bonacieux , “ the Comtesse de Winter. ” The four friends uttered one and the same cry , but that of Athos dominated all the rest .
“ And we , too , ” added Beauchamp and Château-Renaud .
At his mother ’ s ball he danced once with Eugénie , and M. Cavalcanti three times , and he took no notice of it. ” The valet announced the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf .
Courage !
“ Before questioning me , ” he said , “ reply to my question .
He rushed toward D ’ Artagnan with eyes fixed upon him and clasped him in his arms .
“ Come , finish your cup of coffee , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ the history is ended. ” Chapter 78 .
The citizen made a fresh pause and continued , “ I have a wife who is seamstress to the queen , monsieur , and who is not deficient in either virtue or beauty .
Ah , I understand !
Athos took her hand and kissed it .
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help , see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org .
“ D ’ Artagnan and I .
This child , for whom my poor sister would go to the town , five or six leagues off , to purchase the earliest fruits and the most tempting sweetmeats , preferred to Palma grapes or Genoese preserves , the chestnuts stolen from a neighbor ’ s orchard , or the dried apples in his loft , when he could eat as well of the nuts and apples that grew in my garden .
D ’ Artagnan and Planchet spurred their steeds and took the road to Paris .
I fancy I hear horses ’ feet. ” “ Impossible ! ” returned D ’ Artagnan .
“ Well , Tempter , what more do you want with me ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Oh , father , do not look in that way at me !
And yet , as you come from Dax or Pau— ” “ From Tarbes , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Aramis , look at that horse ! ” “ Oh , the frightful brute ! ” said Aramis .
Take a last farewell , sir , of her sad remains ; take the hand you expected to possess once more within your own , and then separate yourself from her forever .
“ That man has sagacity , honor and wit , not to mention likewise that he is a man of undoubted resolution .
Presently , by a change in the atmosphere , he knew that they were entering a cave ; after going on for a few seconds more he heard a crackling , and it seemed to him as though the atmosphere again changed , and became balmy and perfumed .
“ It is not for nothing that I am styled Louis the Just , ” and he signed Emery ’ s appointment .
“ ‘ We dined so very late , ’ hastily interposed La Carconte .
“ What ! ” cried he , in an accent of greater astonishment than before , “ your second witness is Monsieur Aramis ? ” “ Doubtless !
Each of them , when the other was not looking , hazarded a sly glance .
It must have been charming , indeed .
Laporte assured himself , by having it twice repeated , of the accurate address , and set off at a run .
Yesterday , for two hours , I was at the church of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule , and for two hours I prayed most fervently .
“ You look like four conspirators. ” “ Oh , as to that , Monseigneur , it is true , ” said Athos ; “ we do conspire , as your Eminence might have seen the other morning .
“ No , no , ” cried the countess ; “ you must not leave me .
He lives at the Bedford Tavern , Greenhall Street .
No one could be seen or heard .
But as you are the strongest , after all , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ don ’ t be furious with old men and women , and keep your wrath for more appropriate occasions. ” The people listened to these words and let go the ladies , who thanked D ’ Artagnan with an eloquent look .
Do not forget that .
“ Did he allude to his hope of being captain ? ” “ He spoke of it as a thing already decided. ” “ Indeed ! ” said Danglars , “ he is in too much hurry , it appears to me. ” “ Why , it seems M. Morrel has promised him the thing. ” “ So that he is quite elated about it ? ” “ Why , yes , he is actually insolent over the matter—has already offered me his patronage , as if he were a grand personage , and proffered me a loan of money , as though he were a banker. ” “ Which you refused ? ” “ Most assuredly ; although I might easily have accepted it , for it was I who put into his hands the first silver he ever earned ; but now M. Dantès has no longer any occasion for assistance—he is about to become a captain. ” “ Pooh ! ” said Danglars , “ he is not one yet. ” “ _Ma foi ! _ it will be as well if he is not , ” answered Caderousse ; “ for if he should be , there will be really no speaking to him. ” “ If we choose , ” replied Danglars , “ he will remain what he is ; and perhaps become even less than he is. ” “ What do you mean ? ” “ Nothing—I was speaking to myself .
“ Yes , sire , in solitary confinement , in a dungeon , like the lowest criminal. ” “ The devil ! ” murmured the king ; “ what must be done ? ” “ Sign an order for his release , and all will be said , ” replied the cardinal .
During this time the abbé had chosen his place for listening at his ease .
Do you not remember him ? ” “ Yes ! ” said Dantès , and without relinquishing Mercédès ’ hand clasped in one of his own , he extended the other to the Catalan with a cordial air .
For very important notes , for which closer attention is required , I pricked one of my fingers , and wrote with my own blood. ” “ And when , ” asked Dantès , “ may I see all this ? ” “ Whenever you please , ” replied the abbé .
They poured a little rum down his throat , and this remedy which had before been so beneficial to him , produced the same effect as formerly .
Bertuccio made amends , however , by loading the antechambers , staircases , and mantle-pieces with flowers .
“ Bah ! ” cried Porthos .
Those two men were the Count de Rochefort and the mendicant of Saint Eustache .
“ Faith , sir , ” said Raoul , smiling , although his pallor betrayed the excitement consequent on a first affair , “ you are in a great hurry to pay your debts and have not been long under any obligation to me .
Then by degrees the reality broke upon me , full of chaste terrors .
Chapter 86 .
The circumstances are grave and it will be necessary to act promptly. ” “ Still ! ” said the queen .
Athos waved his flag , turning his back on the guards of the city , and saluting those of the camp .
Athos had been out since six o ’ clock .
“ Impossible ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ those beer drinkers are too clumsy and awkward .
“ The affair at Armentieres , ” whispered D ’ Artagnan .
In the morning , I shall rejoice in the prospect of your coming , and in the evening dwell with delight on the happiness I have enjoyed in your presence ; then too , when alone , I can call forth mighty pictures of the past , see vast horizons bounded only by the towering mountains of Pindus and Olympus .
Having recognized the laced hats of his companions and the golden fringe of the cardinal ’ s cloak , he waited till the horsemen had turned the angle of the road , and having lost sight of them , he returned at a gallop to the inn , which was opened to him without hesitation .
He remembers that I saved his life , and as he has a regard for his head , he feels some gratitude towards me for having kept it on his shoulders. ” Ali approached his master , took his hand , and kissed it .
It was easy to ascertain this ; but how could he risk the question ?
Villefort and his wife both grew red , one from shame , the other from anger .
His Grace the Duke of Buckingham _will not set out_ for France .
This money was for her ; I destined it for her , and , knowing the treachery of the sea I buried our treasure in the little garden of the house my father lived in at Marseilles , on the Allées de Meilhan .
“ Come , now , ” said the duke , “ give some particulars of the plan for our escape. ” “ That is forbidden me , ” said Grimaud , “ until the last moment. ” “ Who will be waiting for me beyond the ditch ? ” “ I know nothing about it , my lord. ” “ But at least , if you don ’ t want to see me turn crazy , tell what that famous pate will contain. ” “ Two poniards , a knotted rope and a poire d ’ angoisse. ” * * This poire d ’ angoisse was a famous gag , in the form of a pear , which , being thrust into the mouth , by the aid of a spring , dilated , so as to distend the jaws to their greatest width .
Full pardon was accorded to those who had aided in his escape .
jump directly down , close to Monsieur de la Fere , or , on the honor of a gentleman , I ’ ll kill you ! ” “ Monsieur , monsieur , ” cried Mazarin , “ you are breaking your word to me ! ” “ I—did I promise you anything , my lord ? ” Mazarin groaned .
You don ’ t love me .
Lord de Winter tore his hair .
They were listened to with great politeness by the duke , who held out hopes of easier measures , promised to speak in their behalf to the queen , and dismissed them with the ordinary expression of royalty , “ We will see what we can do. ” Two days afterward these same magistrates appeared before the cardinal and their spokesman addressed Mazarin with so much fearlessness and determination that the minister was astounded and sent the deputation away with the same answer as it had received from the Duke of Orleans—that he would see what could be done ; and in accordance with that intention a council of state was assembled and the superintendent of finance was summoned .
“ Now , ” said Athos , “ that we can not even recognize one another and have therefore no fear of others recognizing us , let us go and see the king ’ s entrance. ” They had not been long in the crowd before loud cries announced the king ’ s arrival .
Porthos clapped his hands and the other two came running around .
“ Has your husband any Spanish bonds ? ” he asked of the baroness .
The Abbé Busoni had watched till daylight , and then left without calling anyone .
“ A handsome young fellow like you does not obtain long leaves of absence from his mistress ; and we were impatiently waited for at Paris , were we not ? ” “ My faith ! ” said the young man , laughing , “ I confess it , and so much more the readily , my dear Bonacieux , as I see there is no concealing anything from you .
He let go the rope and fell upon his feet , without receiving any injury .
The Morrels have been shipowners from father to son ; and there was a Morrel who served in the same regiment with me when I was in garrison at Valence. ’ ” “ _Pardieu ! _ and that is true ! ” cried the owner , greatly delighted .
Sell the crown diamonds .
The noise became so distinct that the horses might be counted by the rattle of their hoofs .
20053m “ Maximilian , my dearest brother ! ” she cried .
Nothing ambiguous , if you please .
“ Yes , I know what you mean , ” he said ; “ you refer to the terrible rumors spread abroad in the world , that the deaths which have kept me in mourning for the last three months , and from which Valentine has only escaped by a miracle , have not happened by natural means. ” “ I was not thinking of that , ” replied Madame Danglars quickly .
A shade of anger and vengeance passed across the usually calm brow of this gentleman .
’ Tis true that Mercédès is not actually my wife ; but , ” added he , drawing out his watch , “ in an hour and a half she will be. ” A general exclamation of surprise ran round the table , with the exception of the elder Dantès , whose laugh displayed the still perfect beauty of his large white teeth .
I resisted .
Moreover , you are our prisoners. ” “ Fool ! ” cried Aramis ; “ knowest thou not , then , Mordaunt ?
I am here almost miraculously , and can scarcely hope for so good an opportunity to occur again .
Will that satisfy you ? ” “ Must this last formality take place in your presence , sir ? ” inquired a turnkey .
‘ Why does the boat go so fast ? ’ asked I of my mother .
“ Good-day , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said Planchet proudly .
If Richelieu made the king , by comparison , seem small , he made royalty great .
“ ‘ Now , ’ said the old man , ‘ aid me to bury my child. ’ Carlini fetched two pickaxes ; and the father and the lover began to dig at the foot of a huge oak , beneath which the young girl was to repose .
The executioner , who had lifted himself up , fell back upon his bed .
“ Oh , yes , monsieur le comte , you know me and I know you .
That is to say , Athos will be chief engineer , Porthos purveyor-in-general , and Aramis governor of the fortress. ” Meanwhile , they gave up to Mazarin the handsomest room in the chateau .
He answered in the same language .
She bore me rapidly away .
“ ‘ Let him have it—let him have it , ’ she said .
Danglars , astonished , opened the door ; but a strong hand pushed him back , and the carriage rolled on .
“ And the headsman of Bethune gave me a reply. ” De Winter fell back in a chair as though struck by a thunderbolt and in vain attempted a reply .
Mme .
“ Silence , D ’ Herblay ! ” cried Athos ; “ such proposals are not to be made to gentlemen such as these .
“ A sort of book , written upon strips of cloth. ” “ Go and fetch it , my good fellow ; and if it be what I hope , you will do well. ” “ I will run for it , sir ; ” and the guide went out .
In order to go from the door to the house , or from the house to the door , M. de Villefort would be obliged to pass by one of these clumps of trees .
Besides , at that moment he put his foot on the first step of the ladder and began his descent .
Athos entered without the least mistrust , and took out two pistoles to pay the bill .
Let us say no more about it. ” “ Say no more about it ?
A new governor arrived ; it would have been too tedious to acquire the names of the prisoners ; he learned their numbers instead .
The steward entered .
“ Will you not come with me ? ” he said ; “ I shall pass by Blois. ” Raoul turned toward Athos , who showed him by a secret sign that he did not wish him to go .
His majesty has so good a heart that he can not understand hatred ; is so loyal that he does not suspect treason !
Let us suppose one thing , ” replied the duke “ let us suppose , for instance , that my maitre d ’ hotel , Noirmont , has purchased the shop of Pere Marteau—— ” “ Well ? ” said La Ramee , shuddering .
Oh , my former friends , my former friends ! ” he murmured , and fell with his face to the ground .
Heaven grant that this light prove not a devouring fire ! ” D ’ Artagnan , who for an hour past had been gnawing his nails with impatience , was beginning to attack the quick .
“ Are you not going to put up at the ‘ Arms of England ’ ? ” “ Yes , sir. ” “ Are you not charged with a mission from his eminence , Cardinal Mazarin ? ” “ Yes , sir. ” “ In that case , I am the man you have to do with .
The orders came .
We say Aramis , because the young man entertained no doubt that it was his friend who held this dialogue from the interior with the lady of the exterior .
The king opened it , and found in it two diamond studs .
But he is mistaken ; I shall not leave so near the queen that source of discord with which the deceased cardinal so often caused the anger of the king to rage above the boiling point. ” Anne blushed and buried her face in her hands .
“ I swear to you , you shall receive the consolation that you ask .
Have you traded it for your diamond ? ” “ No .
And if you wish ever to leave my palace , you can not ; so make the best of it .
“ Athos , my friend ! ” And the two gentlemen were for an instant locked in each other ’ s arms ; then Athos , looking into his friend ’ s face and taking him by both hands , said : “ What ails you , my lord ?
“ This will teach you , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ to treat the guests God sends you in a more courteous fashion. ” “ God ?
“ Well , I will avenge you of this wretch , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , giving himself the airs of Don Japhet of Armenia .
CAPTIVITY : THE FIFTH DAY Milady had however achieved a half-triumph , and success doubled her forces .
One plays with anybody ; but one fights only with equals. ” “ And that is but just , ” said Athos , and he took aside the one of the four Englishmen with whom he was to fight , and communicated his name in a low voice .
He would have written—or—— ” At this instant someone knocked at the door .
would you not be happy to begin anew in my society and in that of Porthos , the exploits of our youth ? ” “ Do you propose to me to do so , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ Decidedly and honestly. ” “ On whose side ? ” asked Athos , fixing his clear , benevolent glance on the countenance of the Gascon .
Let us drink ! ” “ But then , philosopher that you are , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ instruct me , support me .
“ Do you say , ” asked the Gascon , timidly , “ that the Comte de la Fere has commissioned you to give his compliments to Monsieur du Vallon and myself ? ” “ Yes , sir. ” “ Then you have seen him ? ” “ Certainly I have. ” “ Where ?
stop ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , giving rein to his famous steed , who , darting forth , overturned several men .
He opened his eyes .
Julie , suitably dressed , and her hair arranged ( she had accomplished this feat in less than ten minutes ) , received the count on his entrance .
He instantly began to climb up the slope of the moat , on the top of which he met De Rochefort .
“ Good !
D ’ Artagnan followed him , and Mousqueton , having closed the door , mounted behind the carriage with many groans .
And Monsieur de Nogaret de la Valette , what do you say of him ?
It appeared impossible to the baroness that a man of such delightfully pleasing manners should entertain evil designs against her ; besides , the most corrupt minds only suspect evil when it would answer some interested end—useless injury is repugnant to every mind .
Albert , however , hoped to indemnify himself for all these slights and indifferences during the Carnival , knowing full well that among the different states and kingdoms in which this festivity is celebrated , Rome is the spot where even the wisest and gravest throw off the usual rigidity of their lives , and deign to mingle in the follies of this time of liberty and relaxation .
From time to time noises came in the direction of the public markets .
“ But I have always observed that poisoners were cowards .
Now , should any letters or other documents of a compromising character be found upon him , will it not be taken for granted that all who uphold him are his accomplices ? ” With the rapid instinct of selfishness , Caderousse readily perceived the solidity of this mode of reasoning ; he gazed , doubtfully , wistfully , on Danglars , and then caution supplanted generosity .
A poor officer , without fortune , without protection , without a future , unless the eye of my queen , which I have sought so long , rests on me for a moment .
My shoulder quite burns. ” “ If you would permit me— ” said D ’ Artagnan , with timidity .
“ Yes , yes , ” said he ; “ you disturb , you agitate the people who live in the castle. ” The poor , senseless young man was not aware of the incoherence of his words , while Milady was reading with her lynx ’ s eyes the very depths of his heart .
“ We should be very hard to please , madam , ” returned Albert , “ did we not think him delightful .
Although Athos was scarcely thirty years old , and was of great personal beauty and intelligence of mind , no one knew whether he had ever had a mistress .
At the noise of the door Madame Danglars turned round , and looked upon her husband with an astonishment she took no trouble to conceal .
“ Well , then , I should say , for instance , ” resumed Danglars , “ that if after a voyage such as Dantès has just made , in which he touched at the Island of Elba , someone were to denounce him to the king ’ s procureur as a Bonapartist agent—— ” “ I will denounce him ! ” exclaimed the young man hastily .
But what is this that I hear from Her Majesty the Queen of England ?
Villefort stepped forward two or three paces , and beheld his child lying—no doubt asleep—on the sofa .
“ Having wished you all to witness the challenge , he now wishes you to be present at the combat. ” “ Exactly so , ” said the young men ; “ you have probably guessed right. ” “ But , after all these arrangements , he does not come himself , ” said Château-Renaud .
“ I ask your pardon , my dear count , ” said Albert , “ for following you here , and I must first tell you that it was not the fault of your servants that I did so ; I alone am to blame for the indiscretion .
A change of ideas presented themselves to his brain , like a new design on the kaleidoscope .
He has shown very great courage and resolution , for he exposed his own life to stop the horses that were running away with us , and would certainly have dashed the carriage to pieces .
“ Maximilian , ” said he , “ return home .
They had only halberds before , now they have muskets .
“ D ’ Artagnan will not have let slip an opportunity of drinking a glass of this liqueur , and at the same time leaving some trace of himself. ” They went into the town and asked for two glasses of liqueur , at the counter—as their friends must have done before them .
“ Here am I , Milady , here am I ! ” cried Kitty , springing forward to meet her mistress .
“ Sir , ” he responded , “ you are a stranger , and I believe you say yourself that a portion of your life has been spent in Oriental countries , so you are not aware how human justice , so expeditious in barbarous countries , takes with us a prudent and well-studied course. ” “ Oh , yes—yes , I do , sir ; it is the _pede claudo_ of the ancients .
The Marquis de Saint-Méran , one of the most zealous and faithful dignitaries of Louis XVIII .
This strange , unexpected , terrible accusation has disordered your reason .
Grimaud seemed to him an Antinous .
Cloud , and who had reasons for not being seen , and yet D ’ Artagnan did not for an instant doubt that it was Mme .
Ask them to sing one more song ; it is so delightful to hear music in the distance , when the musicians are unrestrained by observation. ” Danglars was quite annoyed by the young man ’ s indifference .
Then Milady attempted to tear down the doorcase , with a strength apparently above that of a woman ; but finding she could not accomplish this , she in her fury stabbed at the door with her poniard , the point of which repeatedly glittered through the wood .
From that time , D ’ Artagnan had been cautious with respect to handkerchiefs with arms on them , and he therefore placed in the pocket of Mme .
M. de Tréville required this intelligence to be repeated to him twice , and each time his companions saw his brow become darker .
“ Monsieur , you appear to be in great haste ? ” “ No one can be more so , monsieur. ” “ I am sorry for that , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for as I am in great haste likewise , I wish to beg you to render me a service. ” “ What ? ” “ To let me sail first. ” “ That ’ s impossible , ” said the gentleman ; “ I have traveled sixty leagues in forty hours , and by tomorrow at midday I must be in London. ” “ I have performed that same distance in forty hours , and by ten o ’ clock in the morning I must be in London. ” “ Very sorry , monsieur ; but I was here first , and will not sail second. ” “ I am sorry , too , monsieur ; but I arrived second , and must sail first. ” “ The king ’ s service ! ” said the gentleman .
At this moment a shot was fired and a ball passed through the hat of Comminges and broke the arm of one of the guards .
Perhaps this would not have been so had it been possible to get rid of M. de Villefort ; but , like the feudal barons who rebelled against their sovereign , he dwelt in an impregnable fortress .
Whilst D ’ Artagnan and Porthos were engaged in conducting the cardinal to Saint Germain , Athos and Aramis returned to Paris .
What must I do ? ” “ Above all things be always on your guard .
“ Yes , ” he said , “ there is the stone upon which I used to sit ; there is the impression made by my shoulders on the wall ; there is the mark of my blood made when one day I dashed my head against the wall .
The countenance of the person who had addressed her remained so completely in the shade , that , though Franz tried his utmost , he could not distinguish a single feature .
de Chevreuse not only served the queen in her political intrigues , but , what tormented him still more , in her amorous intrigues .
Where are your passports ? ” “ We have none ; we left England , ignorant of the state of politics here , having left Paris before the departure of the king. ” “ Ah ! ” said the sergeant , with a cunning smile , “ you are Mazarinists , who are sent as spies. ” “ My dear friend , ” here Athos spoke , “ rest assured , if we were Mazarinists we should come well prepared with every sort of passport .
“ You , to be sure ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , pressing Athos ’ s hand .
Médéah was standing at the rack , eating his hay .
He was going toward the door when Mazarin stopped him .
Nothing is concealed from the cardinal ; the cardinal knows everything. ” “ In that case , monseigneur , do you believe the cardinal will be so kind as to tell me what has become of my wife ? ” “ Perhaps he may ; but you must , in the first place , reveal to the cardinal all you know of your wife ’ s relations with Madame de Chevreuse. ” “ But , monseigneur , I know nothing about them ; I have never seen her. ” “ When you went to fetch your wife from the Louvre , did you always return directly home ? ” “ Scarcely ever ; she had business to transact with linen drapers , to whose houses I conducted her. ” “ And how many were there of these linen drapers ? ” “ Two , monseigneur. ” “ And where did they live ? ” “ One in Rue de Vaugirard , the other Rue de la Harpe. ” “ Did you go into these houses with her ? ” “ Never , monseigneur ; I waited at the door. ” “ And what excuse did she give you for entering all alone ? ” “ She gave me none ; she told me to wait , and I waited. ” “ You are a very complacent husband , my dear Monsieur Bonacieux , ” said the cardinal .
Nothing can be said ; let us be off , gentlemen , let us be off ! ” Grimaud was already ahead , with the basket and the dessert .
yes , ” said Groslow , bursting with his usual coarse laugh , “ I know you Frenchmen want nothing but cuts and bruises. ” Charles had heard and understood it all .
With opium , belladonna , brucea , snake-wood , and the cherry-laurel , they put to sleep all who stand in their way .
At this corner is the private staircase communicating with the sleeping apartment .
“ Well , then , ” with well acted good-humor , “ I allow Grimaud , but no one else ; you must manage it all .
0243m “ I awoke as the clock was striking six .
Chapter XXIV .
We , on our side , do the same .
M. de Tréville would doubtless give him good advice as to the whole affair .
Ha , ha , ha ! ” and a frightful , demoniac laugh finished the sentence , which was lost in a hoarse rattle .
“ You see you were deceived , ” murmured the magistrate ; “ come and see her , and on her bed of agony entreat her pardon for having suspected her. ” “ Each time you have applied to me , ” said the doctor , “ it has been too late ; still I will go .
he escapes us. ” “ So much the better , ” muttered Athos .
The tower contained implements , such as spades , rakes , watering-pots , hung against the wall ; this was all the furniture .
or , the holy blood , I will spit you all like ortolans ! ” Unfortunately , there was one circumstance which created a powerful obstacle to the accomplishment of this threat ; which was , as we have related , that his sword had been in his first conflict broken in two , and which he had entirely forgotten .
“ No , ” said Morrel ; “ I am not mistaken .
“ He is here. ” “ Who ? ” “ Milady ’ s son. ” Athos , again struck by this name , which seemed to pursue him like an echo , hesitated for a moment , then slightly knitting his brows , he calmly said : “ I know it , Grimaud met him between Bethune and Arras and then came here to warn me of his presence. ” “ Does Grimaud know him , then ? ” “ No ; but he was present at the deathbed of a man who knew him. ” “ The headsman of Bethune ? ” exclaimed De Winter .
As to Porthos , all his attention was concentrated on the allurements of the breakfast table .
“ Do you wish to play the braggart with an unarmed man ? ” “ I hope you have a sword at home ; but at all events , I have two , and if you like , I will throw with you for one of them. ” “ Needless , ” said the Englishman ; “ I am well furnished with such playthings. ” “ Very well , my worthy gentleman , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ pick out the longest , and come and show it to me this evening. ” “ Where , if you please ? ” “ Behind the Luxembourg ; that ’ s a charming spot for such amusements as the one I propose to you. ” “ That will do ; I will be there. ” “ Your hour ? ” “ Six o ’ clock. ” “ _A propos_ , you have probably one or two friends ? ” “ I have three , who would be honored by joining in the sport with me. ” “ Three ?
“ Why didn ’ t the baron come himself ? ” demanded Buckingham .
Every one arose .
There is one thing only which I must request. ” “ What is it ?
What he ? ” asked the cardinal .
“ I would propose to you to stake Planchet , but as that has already been done , the Englishman would not , perhaps , be willing. ” “ Decidedly , my dear Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I should like better not to risk anything. ” “ That ’ s a pity , ” said Athos , coolly .
You are going to kill the son , as you killed the mother !
“ I assure you , I shall be very much in the way in that little boat , ” said Mousqueton .
Valentine entered at this moment , and the formalities were resumed .
See , here are two similar letters to that you have yourself received ; one from the house of Arstein & Eskeles of Vienna , to Baron Rothschild , the other drawn by Baring of London , upon M. Lafitte .
I can pass as one of the sailors wrecked last night .
His dress will procure him the means of approaching the scaffold itself , and he will deliver the official order to the officer , who , in his turn , will hand it to the executioner ; in the meantime , it will be as well to acquaint Peppino with what we have determined on , if it be only to prevent his dying of fear or losing his senses , because in either case a very useless expense will have been incurred. ” “ Your excellency , ” said the man , “ you are fully persuaded of my entire devotion to you , are you not ? ” “ Nay , I flatter myself that there can be no doubt of it , ” replied the cavalier in the cloak .
Fortunately , as regarded this circumstance at least , his painful past gave to his countenance an indelible sadness , and the glimmerings of gayety seen beneath this cloud were indeed but transitory .
Just at this time the famous massacres took place in the south of France .
“ How ?
“ Something bright. ” “ I , too , ” cried Mousqueton , “ saw them also. ” “ Ah !
“ Ah ! ” he said , wiping with his sleeve large drops of sweat from his forehead , “ how lucky it was that Mousqueton was thirsty ! ” He made haste to pass out by the opening , still thinking himself in a dream ; but the sight of the gunpowder in the tankard proved to him that his dream was a fatal nightmare .
The Skiff “ Lightning. ” D ’ Artagnan had judged correctly ; Mordaunt felt that he had no time to lose , and he lost none .
He fell asleep again and another vision appeared .
What does it signify to you if I am murdered ?
it is not the king ! ” exclaimed the cavalier .
Now that they are guilty of a conspiracy against England will your honor give me all four of them ? ” “ Take them , ” said Cromwell .
M. Danglars would give double that sum to attain the same end. ” “ Am I , indeed , so happy ? ” said Albert , who still could not prevent an almost imperceptible cloud passing across his brow .
“ Yes , ” said Athos , “ by his own nephew. ” “ Come , he was the first of us to go ; peace be to him !
‘ Take away Vasiliki ! ’ said my father to his Palikares .
I took the wrong angle , and have come out fifteen feet from where I intended .
Ere long a carriage will dash past here , drawn by the pair of dappled gray horses you saw me with yesterday ; now , at the risk of your own life , you must manage to stop those horses before my door. ” Ali descended to the street , and marked a straight line on the pavement immediately at the entrance of the house , and then pointed out the line he had traced to the count , who was watching him .
Upon a look from the procurator , accompanied by a smile from Mme .
“ Grimaud , is it thou ? ” Grimaud signified that he was not mistaken .
Take my advice and set out this evening. ” “ Impossible , monsieur. ” “ You have given your word , then ? ” “ Yes , monsieur. ” “ Ah , that ’ s quite another thing ; but promise me , if you should not be killed tonight , that you will go tomorrow. ” “ I promise it. ” “ Do you need money ? ” “ I have still fifty pistoles .
Bonacieux ; in a tone of reproach , “ ah , monsieur , I had your promise as a soldier and your word as a gentleman .
But he stopped on the landing ; he had not the courage to again visit the death chamber .
Is there any crime in this request ? ” “ No , sire. ” “ Then you will appear ? ” “ Yes , sire. ” “ That is well , ” said the king , retiring , “ that is well ; I count upon it. ” The queen made a curtsy , less from etiquette than because her knees were sinking under her .
“ You don ’ t know them .
as to you , that is not my concern , and I shall sup either with or without your permission. ” The young man ’ s eyes kindled in secret , but he restrained himself .
“ No , but it will be , ” said Caderousse , “ as surely as Dantès will be captain of the _Pharaon_—eh , Danglars ? ” Danglars shuddered at this unexpected attack , and turned to Caderousse , whose countenance he scrutinized , to try and detect whether the blow was premeditated ; but he read nothing but envy in a countenance already rendered brutal and stupid by drunkenness .
M. Noirtier , being deprived of voice and motion , is accustomed to convey his meaning by closing his eyes when he wishes to signify ‘ yes , ’ and to wink when he means ‘ no. ’ You now know quite enough to enable you to converse with M. Noirtier ; —try. ” Noirtier gave Valentine such a look of tenderness and gratitude that it was comprehended even by the notary himself .
“ D ’ Artagnan does not tell you , Raoul , ” said Athos , in his turn , “ that he was reckoned one of the finest swordsmen of his time—a knuckle of iron , a wrist of steel , a sure eye and a glance of fire ; that ’ s what his adversary met with .
From Lyons to Avignon ( still by steamboat ) .... ......... 16 .
I made no resistance ; I was no longer master of my senses .
He had taken the lady as far as Fromelles ; and from Fromelles she had set out for Armentières .
Morcerf thanked him with a smile , and pushed open the door above which were his arms , and which , as we have said , opened into the salon .
The Comte de la Fere can not be far off , only the doors are locked. ” “ That is a slight difficulty , ” said Porthos , “ and a good push with the shoulders—— ” “ For God ’ s sake , Porthos my friend , reserve your feats of strength , or they will not have , when needed , the honor they deserve .
On that day , in fact , the four friends arrived punctually at the hour , each from his own abode or occupation .
“ This is all very well , ” murmured the king , “ yes , this is just the account the duke gave me of the affair .
“ Now , ” said the owner to his wife and daughter , “ leave me ; I wish to speak with this gentleman. ” 20045m And he glanced towards the clerk of Thomson & French , who had remained motionless in the corner during this scene , in which he had taken no part , except the few words we have mentioned .
And you say that by his will—— ” “ He leaves me five hundred thousand livres. ” “ Are you sure of it ? ” “ He showed it me ; but that is not all—there is a codicil , as I said just now. ” “ Probably. ” “ And in that codicil he acknowledges me. ” “ Oh , the good father , the brave father , the very honest father ! ” said Caderousse , twirling a plate in the air between his two hands .
When you return I will set the fuse myself , but be careful to conceal your face , so that you can not be recognized by them. ” “ Never fear. ” “ There ’ s ten o ’ clock striking at Greenwich. ” Groslow , then , having given the sailor on duty an order to be on the watch with more than usual vigilance , went down into the longboat and soon reached Greenwich .
He was a brave and an honest man. ” “ And a first-rate seaman , one who had seen long and honorable service , as became a man charged with the interests of a house so important as that of Morrel & Son , ” replied Danglars .
He had half guessed what was going on when he saw Franz quit the cemetery with M. de Villefort .
Why , here—they give you their hand—they press yours in return—they keep up a whispering conversation—permit you to accompany them home .
He struck thrice .
In the country people alter ; one gets to like , without knowing it , all those beautiful objects that God causes to spring from the earth , which are despised in cities .
Anne of Austria took two steps forward .
“ Tell me , have you ever thought that seven times 1,700,000 francs make nearly twelve millions ?
I had acted hastily towards him .
Buckingham was their Messiah .
The moment of your deliverance is at hand ; have patience and courage and remember that in spite of time and absence all your friends continue to cherish for you the sentiments they have so long professed and truly entertained .
What the devil !
“ What are you doing here ? ” asked the count , seeing him covered with dust ; “ I did not send for you , I think ? ” Baptistin , without answering , approached the count , and presented the letter .
Peeping out from the drapery , he could see the rows of halberdiers and musketeers around the scaffold and the first ranks of the populace swaying and groaning like the sea .
D ’ Artagnan , leaning on Athos , made a sign to Porthos and Aramis to keep near them and then placed himself behind the man with the bare arms , who was still laughing at his own vile pleasantry and receiving the congratulations of several others .
The Monk .
It had been said that evening a hundred times—and Scarron was at his hundredth bon mot on the subject ; he was very nearly at the end of his humoristic tether , but one despairing effort saved him .
And he took hold of one within his reach ; his two companions did the same thing .
These two gentlemen shall decide between us ; but , first , I will state the case to them .
“ When I like. ” Caderousse was thoughtful for a moment .
He picked up the paper , and , recognizing his wife ’ s writing , ran his eyes rapidly over its contents ; it ran as follows : “ You know that I was a good mother , since it was for my son ’ s sake I became criminal .
There was more than benevolence in this action ; there was courage ; the south was aflame , and to assist , even on his death-bed , the father of so dangerous a Bonapartist as Dantès , was stigmatized as a crime .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied the young man naively ; “ I felt a great chill at my heart , and at the word ‘ fire , ’ which resounded in Spanish from the enemy ’ s ranks , I closed my eyes and thought of you. ” “ In honest truth , Raoul ? ” said Athos , pressing his hand .
A horse for Planchet , that ’ s all .
Now , M. le Procureur du Roi , ” said Morrel with increasing vehemence , “ no mercy is allowed ; I denounce the crime ; it is your place to seek the assassin. ” The young man ’ s implacable eyes interrogated Villefort , who , on his side , glanced from Noirtier to d ’ Avrigny .
Chapter XVI .
“ ‘ God has not cursed me then , ’ I cried , ‘ since he permits me to save the life of a human creature , in exchange for the life I have taken away. ’ ” 20295m “ And what did you do with the child ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
I do not know whether you remember that this is the 5th of September ; it is ten years today since I saved your father ’ s life , who wished to die. ” Morrel seized the count ’ s hand and kissed it ; the count allowed him to pay the homage he felt due to him .
During the day I had nothing to fear .
’ tis an unfortunate year for kings , ” said the mother .
“ This moment come , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Albert ’ s attack on Andrea had placed him on a different footing , and he hoped this visit had another cause than that he had at first supposed .
With a full heart and burning head he desired Olivain to lead on the horses to a wayside inn , which he observed within gunshot range , a little in advance of the place they had reached .
Kitty guessed what was passing in the mind of the young man , and heaved a deep sigh .
They descended to the first floor ; Albert led his guest into the salon .
Spur , spur ! ” and he fired two pistols .
On entering the house he had taken off his mask and imitation beard , then , mounting a staircase , had opened a door , and in a room lighted by a single lamp found himself face to face with a man seated behind a desk .
Pray do not call what I consider the wisest action of my life by such a name .
“ Oh. ” cried Madame de Villefort , “ it is really frightful. ” Madame Danglars tried to utter a few words , but was not heard .
“ I will show you the way back myself , ” said the captain ; “ that is the least honor that I can render to your excellency. ” And taking the lighted torch from the hands of the herdsman , he preceded his guests , not as a servant who performs an act of civility , but like a king who precedes ambassadors .
I am not surprised that you refused to recognize me .
The cardinal would reply , with the sarcastic calmness of the skeptic , strong at once by power and genius , “ You should not have allowed yourself to be taken. ” Then Milady collected all her energies , murmuring in the depths of her soul the name of Felton—the only beam of light that penetrated to her in the hell into which she had fallen ; and like a serpent which folds and unfolds its rings to ascertain its strength , she enveloped Felton beforehand in the thousand meshes of her inventive imagination .
And they separated with courteous gestures .
Tréville , ” added the king , in a low voice , as the others were retiring , “ as you have no room in the Musketeers , and as we have besides decided that a novitiate is necessary before entering that corps , place this young man in the company of the Guards of Monsieur Dessessart , your brother-in-law .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , Monsieur du Vallon , you are free. ” The order was obeyed ; D ’ Artagnan and Porthos then found themselves in the centre of a large circle .
Bonacieux .
“ I must die ! ” Then she arose of herself , and cast around her one of those piercing looks which seemed to dart from an eye of flame .
The Beggar Chapter 65 .
From time to time a shot from a musket or the blade of a rapier flashed among the crowd ; projectiles continued to hail down from the windows and some shots were heard , the echo of which , though they were probably fired in the air , made all hearts vibrate .
“ These people who are looking at us are only merchants , ” said Athos , “ and are looking more at the cargo than at us. ” “ I shall not trust to that , ” said the lieutenant , “ and I shall make for the Dunes * as soon as possible. ” * Sandy hills about Dunkirk , from which it derives its name .
can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying copyright royalties .
“ Your power is great , I know ; but you also know that with the help of God men have often conquered the most terrible demons .
Then a fearful crash was heard ; a cloud of dust mounted toward the sky—and all was over !
“ Look at that large clumsy bed , hung with such gloomy , blood-colored drapery !
I returned last night , and here I am. ” “ What circumlocution !
The name of father is sacred in two senses ; he should be reverenced as the author of our being and as a master whom we ought to obey .
“ How , sire ? ” cried the young queen , affecting surprise , “ you are giving me , then , two more : I shall have fourteen. ” In fact the king counted them , and the twelve studs were all on her Majesty ’ s shoulder .
These leaders had corn in abundance , and would not let them partake of it ; they adopted as a maxim—for they , too , had maxims—that it was of very little consequence that women , children , and old men should die , so long as the men who were to defend the walls remained strong and healthy .
I receive him among the number of my friends .
But I can not —I am starving .
We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance .
Ask him , sir , if he recollects the words he uttered in the garden of this house on the night of Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s death .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the cardinal , on perceiving him , “ I have not forgotten with what zeal you have served me .
Adieu. ” “ Adieu , ” said Aramis .
Meanwhile Raoul closely observed the young general , already made so famous by the battles of Rocroy , Fribourg , and Nordlingen .
There only his memory returned to him .
What had taken place during this long sleep ?
“ Come , my friend , ” said he , “ courage. ” Then he turned to the officer .
Danglars thought for ten minutes about his wife in Paris ; another ten minutes about his daughter travelling with Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly ; the same period was given to his creditors , and the manner in which he intended spending their money ; and then , having no subject left for contemplation , he shut his eyes , and fell asleep .
“ But , ” continued the porter , “ he would not take them. ” Andrea turned pale , but as it was dark his pallor was not perceptible .
A nurse of the doctor ’ s choice succeeded them , and never left till about ten or eleven o ’ clock , when Valentine was asleep .
“ It signifies little , ” said Mazarin , when he was alone .
The point of the sword had touched a rib , and glanced along the bone .
“ Come , ” said Andrea , “ you are a man void of compassion ; I ’ ll have you turned out. ” This made the keeper turn around , and he burst into a loud laugh .
External existence then resembles a sleep of which this thought is the dream .
All at once he started .
“ Hold your tongue , you stupid fellow ! ” said the young man ; “ I am D ’ Artagnan ; don ’ t you know me ?
About two hundred persons had accompanied her in her flight .
Nothing could be better done ; a sun-dial could not have shown the hour with greater precision .
“ I tell you what , my dear fellow , ” said Château-Renaud , “ I can not imagine what objection you can possibly have to Mademoiselle Danglars—that is , setting aside her want of ancestry and somewhat inferior rank , which by the way I don ’ t think you care very much about .
I can not throw the loop through this partition nor move with a pack-thread a cask of wine which may perhaps weigh two hundred pounds. ” “ No , but you can take out two or three boards of the partition , ” answered Blaisois , “ and make a hole in the cask with a gimlet. ” Mousqueton opened his great round eyes to the utmost , astonished to find in Blaisois qualities for which he did not give him credit .
“ You remember , ” said the count , during the most profound silence , “ that the unhappy wretch who came to rob me died at my house ; the supposition is that he was stabbed by his accomplice , on attempting to leave it. ” “ Yes , ” said Danglars .
I have , ” returned Guitant .
“ Messieurs Porthos and Aramis , ” repeated Athos , “ you who are her judges , what is the sentence you pronounce upon this woman ? ” “ The punishment of death , ” replied the Musketeers , in a hollow voice .
Your friend ’ s soul must stick tight to his body. ” “ Were you there , then ? ” “ Monsieur , I followed them from curiosity , so that I saw the combat without the combatants seeing me. ” “ And what took place ? ” “ Oh !
Ah , these Musketeers of yours are very devils—fellows to be hanged. ” “ No , sire , ” replied Tréville , who saw at the first glance how things would go , “ on the contrary , they are good creatures , as meek as lambs , and have but one desire , I ’ ll be their warranty .
Leave me , then , to act , and have no fears for the result. ” “ At least , there can be no harm in myself and party being in readiness , in case your excellency should fail. ” “ None whatever .
In truth , that Italian puppet does not deserve the services of an honest man. ” D ’ Artagnan was not less exact to his appointment and at half-past nine o ’ clock he entered the ante-room .
She is what the English call a yacht. ” “ Where was she built ? ” “ I know not ; but my own opinion is she is a Genoese. ” “ And how did a leader of smugglers , ” continued Franz , “ venture to build a vessel designed for such a purpose at Genoa ? ” “ I did not say that the owner was a smuggler , ” replied the sailor .
The cavalcade trotted on more sharply .
It is true that the three others had endeavored to knock the young man down with chairs , stools , and crockery ; but two or three scratches made by the Gascon ’ s blade terrified them .
The following morning they arrived at Châlons , where the count ’ s steamboat waited for them .
I swear to Heaven , on the contrary , that if they fall upon him I will fall upon them. ” “ And I , too , ” said Porthos . )
The executioner searched his face with the quick glance peculiar to those who are about to die and have no time to lose .
Some workmen must have fallen underneath them and been hurt. ” Aramis shuddered in spite of himself .
no , madame , ” answered De Winter ; “ but the case is provided for and I am come to France to seek allies. ” “ Allies ! ” said the queen , shaking her head .
On recognizing her step-mother , Valentine could not repress a shudder , which caused a vibration in the bed .
The moment I understand it there will no longer exist a telegraph for me ; it will be nothing more than a sign from M. Duchâtel , or from M. Montalivet , transmitted to the prefect of Bayonne , mystified by two Greek words , _têle_ , _graphein_ .
I hate you , and on my word you shall pay for this ! ” At the moment she spoke these words a rap on the ceiling made her raise her head , and a voice which reached her through the ceiling cried , “ Dear Madame Bonacieux , open for me the little door on the alley , and I will come down to you. ” Chapter XVIII .
“ Has not one of you a cross ? ” asked Athos .
“ He will come in here , and M. Morrel had better go , —do you not think so , grandpapa ? ” “ Yes , ” signed the old man .
The history of the scuttled vessels , which had appeared improbable during the day , seemed very probable at night ; placed as he was between two possible sources of danger , he kept his eye on the crew , and his gun in his hand .
Ah , dear Constance , I have found you , then ; I see you at last ! ” And Milady stretched out her arms to Mme .
Before an hour has passed you will be discovered , arrested , obliged to kill me , which would be a crime unworthy of loyal gentlemen like you. ” “ He is right , ” thought Athos .
Parry was not wrong .
The horse neighed with pleasure at seeing him .
All these gentlemen had been noticed by Athos and Aramis in the guardhouse , and when the two friends were announced they started and exchanged some words in a low tone .
“ Your grandfather knows , then , that a poisoner lives here ; perhaps he even suspects the person .
“ Can I be of service to your Majesty ? ” said all at once a voice full of sweetness and pity .
“ To the swords !
What is there , then , behind this wall ?
Bonacieux ; “ let us fly !
The cardinal wiped his forehead with his handkerchief and looked around him .
“ ‘ Who ’ s there ? ’ cried Caderousse , rising , and drawing up in a heap the gold and notes scattered over the table , and which he covered with his two hands .
The procurator ’ s wife fancied she saw him in a brilliant cloud , all surrounded by duchesses and marchionesses , who cast bags of money at his feet .
Eat heartily. ” Grimaud smiled ; and with his eyes fixed upon the glass which Athos held in his hand , he ground the paper well between his teeth and then swallowed it .
Still it appeared as though they were stationed at equal distances from one another , like sentinels .
“ Listen , my dear , my adored Valentine , ” said he in his melodious and grave tone ; “ those who , like us , have never had a thought for which we need blush before the world , such may read each other ’ s hearts .
You know you have staked the harnesses against the horse or a hundred pistoles , at your choice. ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , then , I repeat , you are wrong .
Did Edmond make you his heir ? ” “ No , merely his testamentary executor .
I am lost !
D ’ Artagnan , being the bearer of the letter , is naturally the head of the enterprise ; let him decide , and we will execute. ” “ Well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I decide that we should adopt Athos ’ s plan , and that we set off in half an hour. ” “ Agreed ! ” shouted the three Musketeers in chorus .
The queen had written , “ The keeper of the prison at Saint Germain will set Councillor Broussel at liberty ; ” and she had signed it .
This man had seen Valentine , and spoken to her !
“ By the female side , I believe ? ” said the procurator , maliciously .
“ Certainly I was not the first captive that had been shut up in this splendid prison ; but you may easily comprehend , Felton , that the more superb the prison , the greater was my terror .
Chapter LI .
“ Then , my dear sir ; I am convinced that these gentlemen return your kind wishes and will be delighted to kill you also .
If I find you alive on my return , you shall sleep tonight in the conciergerie. ” Madame de Villefort sighed ; her nerves gave way , and she sunk on the carpet .
It was time—two hours after he was delirious ; the next day he died. ” “ And what did you do then ? ” “ What I ought to have done , and what everyone would have done in my place .
an excellent idea .
“ It is well , madame , ” said Mazarin ; “ nothing can gainsay such testimony. ” “ Sir , ” replied the queen , closing the coffer and leaning her hand upon it , “ if there is anything to be said , it is that I have always been ungrateful to the brave men who saved me—that I have given nothing to that gallant officer , D ’ Artagnan , you were speaking of just now , but my hand to kiss and this diamond. ” As she spoke she extended her beautiful hand to the cardinal and showed him a superb diamond which sparkled on her finger .
“ I do not recollect it , ” said Haydée .
Morrel , however , extended his arm , and commanded silence .
Still further , Athos obtained of M. de Tréville six days instead of four , and introduced into these six days two more nights—for they set out on the twenty-fourth at five o ’ clock in the evening , and as a further kindness M. de Tréville post-dated the leave to the morning of the twenty-fifth .
“ Oh !
Chapter LXXX .
This excess of bilious humor could not be attributed to play ; for unlike Porthos , who accompanied the variations of chance with songs or oaths , Athos when he won remained as unmoved as when he lost .
Well , I had promised Madame de Villefort the loan of my carriage to drive tomorrow to the Bois ; but when my coachman goes to fetch the grays from the stables they are gone—positively gone .
“ By my father ’ s tomb , ” said he , extending his hand over the head of the young girl , “ I swear to you , Haydée , that if any misfortune happens , it will not be to me. ” “ I believe you , my lord , as implicitly as if God had spoken to me , ” said the young girl , presenting her forehead to him .
This is a boy , Tréville , a mere boy !
“ Ah , your pardon , ” said Dantès , frowning in his turn ; “ I did not perceive that there were three of us. ” Then , turning to Mercédès , he inquired , “ Who is this gentleman ? ” “ One who will be your best friend , Dantès , for he is my friend , my cousin , my brother ; it is Fernand—the man whom , after you , Edmond , I love the best in the world .
“ Monsieur Pailletin , if you please , my good woman , ” replied Andrea .
I enjoy beforehand the face the cardinal will make .
You will be a brave and adventurous captain. ” D ’ Artagnan , his eye moist with gratitude though beaming with joy , went back to Athos , whom he found still at table contemplating the charms of his last glass of Malaga by the light of his lamp .
“ And Lord de Winter—do you know anything about him ? ” “ I know that he is in high favor with Charles I. ” “ The fortunes of that monarch now are at low water .
I am an officer of fortune , nothing else ; I have nothing but what my sword brings me in—that is to say , more blows than banknotes .
“ Thirty-five or thirty-six , mother. ” “ So young , —it is impossible , ” said Mercédès , replying at the same time to what Albert said as well as to her own private reflection .
He received also the office of admiral , which had been held by his father , the Duc de Vendome and an indemnity for his houses and castles , demolished by the Parliament of Bretagne .
young people—stop there ! ” said the tutor , joining in the conversation .
Had Morrel been a more quick-sighted man , or better versed in these matters , he would have been surprised at the king ’ s procureur answering him on such a subject , instead of referring him to the governors of the prison or the prefect of the department .
“ What is this ? ” “ It is from your father. ” “ From my father ? ” “ Yes ; did you not tell him just now that you wanted money ?
Danglars had , however , protested against showing himself in a ministerial box , declaring that his political principles , and his parliamentary position as member of the opposition party would not permit him so to commit himself ; the baroness had , therefore , despatched a note to Lucien Debray , bidding him call for them , it being wholly impossible for her to go alone with Eugénie to the opera .
“ Then , ” cried Planchet joyously , “ I see well that it is the same Comte de la Fere whom we seek .
This time , as he was well attended , he looked at them sternly , and made a sign with his eye and hand for D ’ Artagnan to follow him .
“ Baron Danglars. ” “ Follow me , ” said the man .
Have I guards ?
Go into the cavern with Haydée. ’ — ‘ I will not quit you , ’ said Vasiliki ; ‘ if you die , my lord , I will die with you. ’ — ‘ Go to Selim ! ’ cried my father .
There she must always be ; and to marry Mademoiselle Danglars would be awful. ” “ You are difficult to please , viscount. ” “ Yes , for I often wish for what is impossible. ” “ What is that ? ” “ To find such a wife as my father found. ” Monte Cristo turned pale , and looked at Albert , while playing with some magnificent pistols .
An Englishman visited Toulon , who had vowed to rescue two men from infamy , and his choice fell on you and your companion .
For an active , ambitious nature , like that of Milady , days not spent in climbing are inauspicious days .
He was coming here to hasten her marriage with Franz. ” “ Ah , indeed ! ” “ So Franz must wait .
“ Prepare yourself , Maximilian , ” he said with a smile ; “ we leave Paris tomorrow. ” “ Have you nothing more to do there ? ” asked Morrel .
There were not lacking , however , evidences of what we may call the intelligent egoism of a youth who is charmed with the indolent , careless life of an only son , and who lives as it were in a gilded cage .
And the duke ? ” “ Furious against the cardinal .
The officiating priest was just finishing mass whilst D ’ Artagnan was looking at Bazin ; he pronounced the words of the holy Sacrament and retired , giving the benediction , which was received by the kneeling communicants , to the astonishment of D ’ Artagnan , who recognized in the priest the coadjutor * himself , the famous Jean Francois Gondy , who at that time , having a presentiment of the part he was to play , was beginning to court popularity by almsgiving .
Having been brought up on the banks of the Loire , he might have been said to have been cradled on its waves ; a hundred times he had crossed it on horseback , a thousand times had swum across .
“ With what view ? ” “ With the view of assassinating , or causing to be assassinated , the Duke of Buckingham. ” D ’ Artagnan uttered an exclamation of surprise and indignation .
“ Yes , indeed , ” said he , “ I believe so. ” “ So that you could without trouble convert these tongs into a hoop and yonder shovel into a corkscrew ? ” “ Certainly. ” And the giant took up these two articles , and without any apparent effort produced in them the metamorphoses suggested by his companion .
“ Lieutenant Felton , from Lord de Winter , ” said Patrick .
D ’ Artagnan ! ” cried Athos , “ my son , I entreat you ; the wretch is dying , and it is horrible to let a man die without extending a hand to save him .
If when on the ship you speak a single word to anyone before the captain permits you , the captain will have you thrown into the sea .
It was a signal .
She heard the count ’ s sentence pronounced without betraying an expression of joy or pity ; then drawing her veil over her face she bowed majestically to the councillors , and left with that dignified step which Virgil attributes to his goddesses. ” Chapter 87 .
“ Why , of downright starvation. ” “ Starvation ! ” exclaimed the abbé , springing from his seat .
“ There , ” said the young man , handing Kitty the letter sealed ; “ give that to Milady .
“ Listen , now , to what I say in this my dying moment .
Monte Cristo and Haydée took the beverage in the original Arabian manner , that is to say , without sugar .
“ Let us go , ” said Athos and Aramis .
“ Yes , and my poor grandmother fancies that her husband , whom she never left , has called her , and that she must go and join him .
“ Well , of the four horses of our lackeys we will make two for the masters , for which we will draw lots .
Is that all , then ? ” “ In truth , my dear Chevalier , you are a miracle of memory .
Villefort sprang into the room , ran to Valentine , and took her in his arms .
People die very suddenly in your house , M. de Villefort. ” “ What ? ” cried the magistrate , with an accent of horror and consternation , “ are you still harping on that terrible idea ? ” “ Still , sir ; and I shall always do so , ” replied d ’ Avrigny , “ for it has never for one instant ceased to retain possession of my mind ; and that you may be quite sure I am not mistaken this time , listen well to what I am going to say , M. de Villefort. ” The magistrate trembled convulsively .
To the great lady she had given a heart vile and venal ; to the _soubrette_ she had given the heart of a duchess .
And D ’ Artagnan had time , therefore , to watch Bazin unsuspected .
“ Ah !
“ I am endeavoring , ” he thought , “ to make this man happy ; I look upon this restitution as a weight thrown into the scale to balance the evil I have wrought .
The thought was maddening , and Dantès threw himself furiously down on his straw .
There , to his great astonishment , D ’ Artagnan heard the policy which made all Europe tremble criticized aloud and openly , as well as the private life of the cardinal , which so many great nobles had been punished for trying to pry into .
“ Good-morning , creditor , ” said he ; “ for I wager anything it is the creditor who visits me. ” “ You are right , baron , ” answered M. de Boville ; “ the charities present themselves to you through me ; the widows and orphans depute me to receive alms to the amount of five millions from you. ” “ And yet they say orphans are to be pitied , ” said Danglars , wishing to prolong the jest .
I don ’ t believe that Monsieur de Mazarin thinks of cutting off our heads , for heads are not taken off without previous trial ; a trial would make a noise , and a noise would get the attention of our friends , who would check the operations of Monsieur de Mazarin. ” “ How well you reason ! ” said Porthos , admiringly .
“ And yet here are two culprits. ” “ Yes ; but only one of these two is about to die ; the other has many years to live. ” “ If the pardon is to come , there is no time to lose. ” “ And see , here it is , ” said the count .
Monte Cristo summoned the Greek attendant , and bade her inquire whether it would be agreeable to her mistress to receive his visit .
It was too late , for he had already drunk a glass of excellent wine , placed for him expressly by the pope ’ s butler .
Felton , my lad , did you not perceive that you were taken for a novice , and that the first act was being performed of a comedy of which we shall doubtless have the pleasure of following out all the developments ? ” “ I thought so , my lord , ” said Felton ; “ but as the prisoner is a woman , after all , I wish to pay her the attention that every man of gentle birth owes to a woman , if not on her account , at least on my own. ” Milady shuddered through her whole system .
for I am sure the count is his father .
“ To saddle , gentlemen !
It seemed to all three that they knew him .
ha !
“ Try and make an effort to do so , my good man. ” said d ’ Avrigny .
We will do the same. ” The next moment the door opened and Mordaunt appeared on the threshold , face to face with D ’ Artagnan .
“ Come , speak ! ” said the latter , closing the door and bolting it , that they might not be disturbed .
He almost believed in the tenderness of Milady ; he almost believed in the crime of De Wardes .
The duke was in the act of combing his beard , which he had allowed to grow , as well as his hair , in order to reproach Mazarin with his wretched appearance and condition .
Besides this , he had drawn upon himself two good duels with two men , each capable of killing three D ’ Artagnans—with two Musketeers , in short , with two of those beings whom he esteemed so greatly that he placed them in his mind and heart above all other men .
“ A piece of bread and another glass of the capital rum I tasted , for I have not eaten or drunk for a long time. ” He had not tasted food for forty hours .
“ Make yourself easy , we are quite alone , ” said Andrea ; “ besides , we are conversing in Italian. ” “ Well , then , ” replied the major , “ they paid me 50,000 francs down. ” “ Monsieur Cavalcanti , ” said Andrea , “ do you believe in fairy tales ? ” “ I used not to do so , but I really feel now almost obliged to have faith in them. ” “ You have , then , been induced to alter your opinion ; you have had some proofs of their truth ? ” The major drew from his pocket a handful of gold .
“ I recognize the coadjutor by his Frondist hat. ” “ And I the Duc de Beaufort by his white plume of ostrich feathers. ” “ They are coming , full gallop ; the prince is with them—ah !
Athos alone smiled , with a self-possessed , disdainful smile .
“ What new gibberish is that ? ” “ He says he is German , my lord , ” replied Raoul ; “ but I doubt it , for his accent is bad and his pronunciation defective. ” “ Then you speak German , also ? ” asked the prince .
He then went straight to the door and knocked , murmuring , “ I will go myself and be caught in the mousetrap , but woe be to the cats that shall pounce upon such a mouse ! ” The knocker had scarcely sounded under the hand of the young man before the tumult ceased , steps approached , the door was opened , and D ’ Artagnan , sword in hand , rushed into the rooms of M. Bonacieux , the door of which , doubtless acted upon by a spring , closed after him .
I have written a letter today ; that letter is not yet gone .
“ Ah , you are quite the pet of the ladies , Monsieur Porthos ! ” resumed the procurator ’ s wife , with a sigh .
He bounded like a chamois , cocking his carbine as he went , and in a moment reached the summit of a hill opposite to that on which he had perceived the traveller .
My English horse , which has just disappeared amid a cloud of dust , has furnished me with a living image of the fragility of the things of the earth .
Porthos had discovered the means , _the diamond_ .
He had no doubt that it was the messenger from Albert .
Well , out of the five or six millions which form your real capital , you have just lost nearly two millions , which must , of course , in the same degree diminish your credit and fictitious fortune ; to follow out my simile , your skin has been opened by bleeding , and this if repeated three or four times will cause death—so pay attention to it , my dear Monsieur Danglars .
Yet perchance tomorrow deception will so act on me , that I shall , on compulsion , consider such a contemptible possession as the utmost happiness .
That which would now be considered as disgraceful to a gentleman was at that time quite a simple and natural affair , and the younger sons of the best families were frequently supported by their mistresses .
I too , sir , was almost dead when you arrived. ” “ Wait , wait , young man ; do not fatigue yourself with speaking .
When I saw her weeping I began to cry too .
Smuggling is a profitable trade , when a certain degree of vigor and intelligence is employed ; as for myself , brought up in the mountains , I had a double motive for fearing the gendarmes and custom-house officers , as my appearance before the judges would cause an inquiry , and an inquiry always looks back into the past .
No matter .
A few locks of gray mingled with his hair , which was still thick and matted , while his bronzed features and determined glance well suited an old sailor who had braved the heat of the equator and the storms of the tropics .
This was the last blow to the prisoner .
When the young man on board saw this person approach , he left his station by the pilot , and , hat in hand , leaned over the ship ’ s bulwarks .
By degrees , Milady became more communicative .
If we reach Compiegne we shall stop at the Peacock .
Well , I will tell you .
Alas , it is not the death of the body I regret ; for is not the destruction of the vital principle , the repose to which everything is tending , to which every unhappy being aspires , —is not this the repose of matter after which I so long sighed , and which I was seeking to attain by the painful process of starvation when Faria appeared in my dungeon ?
I will go , ” said Comminges ; “ and if they come back , fire ! ” “ Not at all—not at all , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ let no one move .
To be a woman condemned to a painful and disgraceful punishment is no impediment to beauty , but it is an obstacle to the recovery of power .
If anyone had said to your father , at the moment he raised the pistol to his head—if anyone had told me , when in my prison I pushed back the food I had not tasted for three days—if anyone had said to either of us then , ‘ Live—the day will come when you will be happy , and will bless life ! ’ —no matter whose voice had spoken , we should have heard him with the smile of doubt , or the anguish of incredulity , —and yet how many times has your father blessed life while embracing you—how often have I myself—— ” “ Ah , ” exclaimed Morrel , interrupting the count , “ you had only lost your liberty , my father had only lost his fortune , but I have lost Valentine. ” “ Look at me , ” said Monte Cristo , with that expression which sometimes made him so eloquent and persuasive— “ look at me .
The duke uttered a cry , but Grimaud did not give a single moan .
“ Bless me ! ” cried Porthos , making strong efforts to disembarrass himself of D ’ Artagnan , who was wriggling about his back ; “ you must be mad to run against people in this manner. ” “ Excuse me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , reappearing under the shoulder of the giant , “ but I am in such haste—I was running after someone and— ” “ And do you always forget your eyes when you run ? ” asked Porthos .
The vague disquietude which prevailed among the spectators had so much affected one of the crowd that he did not await the arrival of the vessel in harbor , but jumping into a small skiff , desired to be pulled alongside the _Pharaon_ , which he reached as she rounded into La Réserve basin .
We have had a narrow escape. ” “ But , ” said Valentine , timidly , “ does all the father ’ s shame revert upon the son ?
Then , too , I confess I should not be sorry to come across Mordaunt again .
Madeleine introduced him in presence of all the servants .
The last two mounted guard at the door during this examination ; then , when all was over , they went away , leaving the house empty and exposed. ” “ And Porthos and Aramis ? ” “ I could not find them ; they did not come. ” “ But they may come any moment , for you left word that I awaited them ? ” “ Yes , monsieur. ” “ Well , don ’ t budge , then ; if they come , tell them what has happened .
“ Lieutenant ? ” asked Aramis .
This recital was for him the occasion of veritable triumph .
Bonacieux could hardly hear what she said , “ To my Lord Duke of Buckingham , London. ” “ The letter shall be given to himself. ” “ Generous girl ! ” cried Anne of Austria .
Athos set the lackeys to work first because , since these men had been in the service of himself and his friends he had discovered in each of them different and essential qualities .
Three or four times he started up , imagining that a man was approaching his bed for the purpose of stabbing him .
He walked slowly down the Rue de la Roquette .
I crossed the street , and stopped at a post placed at the angle of the wall , and by means of which I had once before looked into the garden .
Porthos had six occasions , and contrived in the same manner that his friends should partake of them ; Aramis had eight of them .
me ! ” said Nanette .
With the assistance of Blaisois and Grimaud the friends succeeded in turning the stone over .
stop !
The beacon bathed with light the little strait through which they were about to pass and the rock where the young man stood with bare head and crossed arms .
He was , then , as punctual as the Samaritan woman , and the most rigorous casuist with regard to duels could have nothing to say .
It is best to constitute myself at once a prisoner with Athos , who is already arrested , and with D ’ Artagnan , who most probably will be. ” “ Gascon-headed man , will you have done ? ” said the king .
“ Alas !
“ Good , ” said he , as he went away ; “ this is a fruitful soil , and I feel certain that the seed sown will not be cast on barren ground. ” Next morning , faithful to his promise , he sent the prescription requested .
He then took his hat from his head and threw it on the ground .
You will make some desirable acquaintances ; and from time to time you can call upon me , just to tell me how you are getting on , and to say whether I can be of further service to you. ” D ’ Artagnan , stranger as he was to all the manners of a court , could not but perceive a little coldness in this reception .
“ He shall not come in before I am gone , ” said he ; “ and when I am gone , you can open to him. ” “ But I ought to be gone , too .
But as Lord Wilmore , in the character of the count ’ s enemy , was less restrained in his answers , they were more numerous ; he described the youth of Monte Cristo , who he said , at ten years of age , entered the service of one of the petty sovereigns of India who make war on the English .
The game was played in an inclosure called the little court of the chateau , a place quite deserted except when Monsieur de Beaufort was playing ; and even then the precaution seemed superfluous , the wall was so high .
“ Of course we do , ” replied Albert .
At first , perhaps , he did not recognize the infinite mercy of the Lord , but at last he took patience and waited .
Raoul , on foot , for he had not time to mount his horse again , tired , like the guards , of distributing blows with the flat of his sword , had recourse to its point .
He saw nothing , unless that , by traces of smoke , others had before him attempted the same thing , and , like him , in vain .
your honor , in the library of the Chateau of Bracieux there are a lot of books of travels. ” “ What then ? ” “ Amongst them the voyages of Jean Mocquet in the time of Henry IV. ” “ Well ? ” “ In these books , your honor , ’ tis told how hungry voyagers , drifting out to sea , have a bad habit of eating each other and beginning with—— ” “ The fattest among them ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , unable in spite of the gravity of the occasion to help laughing .
A Signed Statement Chapter 76 .
The queen had passed the night in lonely conference with the prince , who had entered the oratory at midnight and did not leave till five o ’ clock in the morning .
The three young people were talking together .
Cloud , opposite D ’ Estrées ’ s pavilion ?
Love me then , Haydée !
In his whole person he bore such an impress of high degree , that Madame de Chevreuse half rose from her seat when she saw him and made him a sign to sit down near her .
The Cemetery of the Château d ’ If On the bed , at full length , and faintly illuminated by the pale light that came from the window , lay a sack of canvas , and under its rude folds was stretched a long and stiffened form ; it was Faria ’ s last winding-sheet , —a winding-sheet which , as the turnkey said , cost so little .
Seven men in two days , and those of his very best !
“ Zounds , I thought as much when the wretch kept moving around the room .
He advanced slowly toward Milady , who had seated herself , and taking an end of the murderous rope which by neglect , or perhaps by design , she allowed to be seen , “ What is this , madame ? ” he asked coldly .
In about the space of a second a private door opened , and Ali appeared , bringing two chibouques filled with excellent latakia .
She turned upon him , no longer like a furious woman , but like a wounded panther .
“ Oh , my God , my God !
But pray sit down. ” “ Thank you , ” said Albert , with a cold and formal bow .
A quarter of an hour afterwards the door of Valentine ’ s room opened , and Monte Cristo reappeared .
“ Where you please , ” returned Monte Cristo , “ since I know nothing at all of it. ” “ I thought the Abbé Busoni had told your excellency. ” “ Some particulars , doubtless , but that is seven or eight years ago , and I have forgotten them. ” “ Then I can speak without fear of tiring your excellency. ” “ Go on , M. Bertuccio ; you will supply the want of the evening papers. ” “ The story begins in 1815. ” “ Ah , ” said Monte Cristo , “ 1815 is not yesterday. ” “ No , monsieur , and yet I recollect all things as clearly as if they had happened but then .
“ I think it will be wise to set off , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Then she cried , “ Ahem ! ” under cover of the _mea culpa_ , striking her breast so vigorously that everybody , even the lady with the red cushion , turned round toward her .
Ah , here is one of them , I believe. ” In fact , at the end of the Rue Vaugirard the gigantic Porthos appeared .
“ How do you take it ? ” inquired the unknown ; “ in the French or Turkish style , strong or weak , sugar or none , cool or boiling ?
This smile appeared to D ’ Artagnan to be of bad augury .
Have you lost it ? ” asked Blaisois .
For about seven or eight years the little tavern had been kept by a man and his wife , with two servants , —a chambermaid named Trinette , and a hostler called Pecaud .
What next ?
“ You ? ” cried she , with tones of thrilling tenderness , “ you are everywhere ! ” Monte Cristo took the delicate hand of the young girl in his , and was about to raise it to his lips , when the simple child of nature hastily withdrew it , and presented her cheek .
explain to me .
Now take me aboard and return to your post , for they will soon be here. ” “ I am ready. ” “ It is important that none of your crew should see me. ” “ I have but one man on board , and I am as sure of him as I am of myself .
It almost seemed as if the return of this much loved boy had changed his fears to hopes .
“ Go to sleep soon , Louis , ” said the queen , “ for you must be awakened very early. ” “ I will do my best to obey you , madame , ” said the youthful king , “ but I have no inclination to sleep. ” “ Laporte , ” said Anne of Austria , in an undertone , “ find some very dull book to read to his majesty , but do not undress yourself. ” The king went out , accompanied by the Chevalier de Coislin , bearing the candlestick , and then the queen returned to her own apartment .
At a shout from the boat , the chain that closes the mouth of the port was lowered and in a second they were , as Dantès knew , in the Frioul and outside the inner harbor .
“ Yes , ” said he .
Leaving the church , a woman and a young girl dressed in black , the one as a widow and the other as an orphan , have re-entered their cell .
On this occasion he began his rounds at Dantès ’ cell , and on leaving him he went on to Faria ’ s dungeon , taking thither breakfast and some linen .
Though he had acknowledged his guilt , he was protected by his grief .
Time , which encrusts all physical substances with its mossy mantle , as it invests all things of the mind with forgetfulness , seemed to have respected these signs , which apparently had been made with some degree of regularity , and probably with a definite purpose .
“ ‘ If you had been a man , you would not have let him go from here. ’ “ ‘ Woman ! ’ “ ‘ Or else he should not have reached Beaucaire. ’ “ ‘ Woman ! ’ “ ‘ The road takes a turn—he is obliged to follow it—while alongside of the canal there is a shorter road. ’ “ ‘ Woman ! —you offend the good God .
“ ‘ Thou hast done well ! ’ returned the old man in a hoarse voice ; ‘ embrace me , my son. ’ 20115m Carlini threw himself , sobbing like a child , into the arms of his mistress ’ s father .
“ Ah , you are his son ! ” he said ; “ that is a different thing. ” “ Sir , I surrender , ” said Louvieres , presenting his unloaded musket to the officer .
The affair , as it will be reported , will cover us with shame ; for in a society such as ours satire inflicts a painful and incurable wound .
Is life worth the trouble of so many questions ?
You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary , compressed , marked up , nonproprietary or proprietary form , including any word processing or hypertext form .
He cast his eyes around , and saw the horn full of powder which his friend Jacopo had left him .
“ I say that Valentine is dead ! ” replied d ’ Avrigny , in a voice terrible in its solemn calmness .
Twice during the Hundred Days had Morrel renewed his demand , and twice had Villefort soothed him with promises .
“ ‘ Yes , ’ replied the brigadier ; ‘ and as his head is valued at a thousand Roman crowns , there would have been five hundred for you , if you had helped us to catch him. ’ The two young persons exchanged looks .
On the nineteenth the impromptu army had attempted a sortie , more to assure itself and others of its actual existence than with any more serious intention .
The stranger ascended a rough staircase , and before a table , illumined by a lamp whose light was concentrated by a large shade while the rest of the apartment was in partial darkness , he perceived the abbé in a monk ’ s dress , with a cowl on his head such as was used by learned men of the Middle Ages .
Your interview will be private .
Teresa was lively and gay , but coquettish to excess .
“ But , ” continued the queen , “ you have doubtless come for some important purpose .
Emmanuel hesitated a moment , but his desire to make Julie decide immediately made him reply .
The court of Anne of Austria was full of gayety and animation ; for , after having gained a victory over the Spaniard , it had just gained another over the people .
He found the old man suspended from one of the branches of the oak which shaded his daughter ’ s grave .
The man in the mantle quitted the wall , and advanced into the middle of the street .
He then , with noiseless haste , took out the horse that he had ridden on the previous evening , saddled and bridled it himself and led the animal into the alley to the right of the kitchen-garden , opened a side door which conducted him to a bridle road , shut it after him , and D ’ Artagnan saw him pass by like a dart , bending , as he went , beneath the pendent flowery branches of maple and acacia .
So the two swords were crossed close to the hilts , and as D ’ Artagnan stood firm , it was his adversary who made the retreating step ; but D ’ Artagnan seized the moment at which , in this movement , the sword of Bernajoux deviated from the line .
The Bell and Bottle Tavern And now let us leave Mademoiselle Danglars and her friend pursuing their way to Brussels , and return to poor Andrea Cavalcanti , so inopportunely interrupted in his rise to fortune .
Ten minutes later the curate of St. Sulpice was announced .
“ And as for me , ” said Porthos , “ I swear nothing , but I ’ m choked .
You have more experience than I have .
I am a tolerable chemist , and prepare my pills myself. ” “ This is a magnificent emerald , and the largest I have ever seen , ” said Château-Renaud , “ although my mother has some remarkable family jewels. ” “ I had three similar ones , ” returned Monte Cristo .
“ Teresa was sixteen , and Vampa seventeen .
“ Stop ! ” said the Englishman , “ I have the key of that door ; ” and he opened the door , with a trembling hand , into the second compartment , where Mousqueton and Blaisois were preparing supper .
“ And what does it concern , then—my captivity ? ” “ I heard of it the day it happened ; but as you were not guilty of any crime , as you were not guilty of any intrigue , as you , in short , knew nothing that could compromise yourself or anybody else , I attached no more importance to that event than it merited. ” “ You speak very much at your ease , madame , ” said Bonacieux , hurt at the little interest his wife showed in him .
If there was a beautiful lily , or a sweet rose , you had to search for it , concealed in some corner behind a mother with a turban , or an aunt with a bird-of-paradise .
It depends on the distance he may be from the city , whether he gives eight hours , twelve hours , or a day wherein to pay their ransom ; and when that time has elapsed he allows another hour ’ s grace .
“ It appeared to me— ” “ Such women as I never weep , ” said Milady .
The spectators followed the little vessel with their eyes as long as it remained visible ; they then turned their conjectures upon her probable destination .
“ What you tell me is horrible , sir .
She has always been opposed to this marriage , and I should not be at all surprised if what we have just seen and heard is nothing but the execution of a plan concerted between them. ” “ Madame , ” said Villefort , “ believe me , a fortune of 900,000 francs is not so easily renounced. ” “ She could , nevertheless , make up her mind to renounce the world , sir , since it is only about a year ago that she herself proposed entering a convent. ” “ Never mind , ” replied Villefort ; “ I say that this marriage _shall_ be consummated. ” “ Notwithstanding your father ’ s wishes to the contrary ? ” said Madame de Villefort , selecting a new point of attack .
Perhaps you would prefer being alone ? ” “ No , ” replied he ; “ I will not be caught like a fool at a first disclosure by a rendezvous under the clock , as they say at the opera-balls .
Will it be the same this evening ?
“ But , ” said he , as he retired as quickly as possible from the reproaches of Kitty , “ I must not play the fool .
Athos walked about in a contemplative mood .
Now and then a jolt more violent than the rest caused him to open his eyes ; then he felt that he was still being carried with great rapidity over the same country , thickly strewn with broken aqueducts , which looked like granite giants petrified while running a race .
On guard ! ” “ But , ” said he whom D ’ Artagnan thus provoked , “ it appears to me that this place is badly chosen , and that we should be better behind the Abbey St. Germain or in the Pré-aux-Clercs. ” “ What you say is full of sense , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ but unfortunately I have very little time to spare , having an appointment at twelve precisely .
“ Rather say that you have a new love. ” “ Not so ; I speak frankly to you .
Then , to justify myself , I should say that you gave me the money ; this would cause inquiries , it would be found that I left Toulon without giving due notice , and I should then be escorted back to the shores of the Mediterranean .
And the king went out of the room without either embracing his mother or even bowing to the cardinal .
I felt some degree of nervousness as I entered upon the history of the diamond , but , to my inexpressible astonishment , he confirmed it in every particular , and to my equal surprise , he seemed to place entire belief in all I said .
They are destined to produce at least ten .
Go. ” The lackey bowed to the ground and departed .
“ If he is a prince , he is wrong not to maintain his rank ; I do not like anyone to deny his origin. ” “ Oh , you are a thorough democrat , ” said Monte Cristo , smiling .
Once only had Villefort seen his father ; it was the day after that upon which Bertuccio had paid his second visit to Benedetto , when the latter was to learn his father ’ s name .
During the Ligue , about which Guitant was speaking just now , the people chanted nothing except the mass , so everything went to destruction .
Fifty vessels were waiting to set out .
He had wept all night long , but would not show his grief before the people .
I should dread some disagreeable encounter if I were to go home. ” “ Be easy .
In a couple of hours he returned .
As for Porthos , on whom D ’ Artagnan had impressed the necessity of absolute silence and who did not even now begin to comprehend the scheme of his friend , which was to follow Mazarin in his visit to Athos , he was simply mute .
“ Monsieur , ” he said , after a moment , “ they tell me great things of you .
Four wretched fares , and twenty sous over , making in all seven francs , are all that I have earned , and I ought to take ten to the owner. ” “ Will you add these twenty francs to the seven you have ? ” “ With pleasure , sir ; twenty francs are not to be despised .
I might as well say Count Benedetto .
I know not where I have left my hat , and in all probability I should have been left with my hat , had the coadjutor not arrived in time to rescue me. ” “ Ah , indeed , ” said the queen , “ it would have much astonished me if that low cur , with his distorted legs , had not been mixed up with all this. ” “ Madame , ” said La Meilleraie , “ do not say too much against him before me , for the service he rendered me is still fresh. ” “ Very good , ” said the queen , “ be as grateful as you like , it does not implicate me ; you are here safe and sound , that is all I wished for ; you are not only welcome , but welcome back. ” “ Yes , madame ; but I only came back on one condition—that I would transmit to your majesty the will of the people. ” “ The will ! ” exclaimed the queen , frowning .
“ I was forced to read the address to know to whom to give it. ” “ Have you shown this letter to anyone ? ” asked Villefort , becoming still more pale .
“ But he must be disturbed , ” cried the host ; “ Here are two English gentlemen just arrived. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , the English like good wine , as you may know , monsieur ; these have asked for the best .
It was a gloomy , dusty-looking apartment , such as journalists ’ offices have always been from time immemorial .
The cardinal has a weakness for these men which I can not comprehend. ” “ Indeed ! ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , then , tell him this , Rochefort .
THE BALLET OF LA MERLAISON On the morrow , nothing was talked of in Paris but the ball which the aldermen of the city were to give to the king and queen , and in which their Majesties were to dance the famous La Merlaison—the favorite ballet of the king .
The evening was employed in discussing the war ; the grooms polished their arms ; the young men loaded the pistols in case of a skirmish , and they awoke in despair , having both dreamed that they had arrived too late to participate in the battle .
“ I knew that , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ she has been dead these ten years. ” “ And I am still mourning her loss , ” exclaimed the major , drawing from his pocket a checked handkerchief , and alternately wiping first the left and then the right eye .
40152m As the last stroke died away , the count thought he heard a slight noise in the dressing-room ; this first sound , or rather this first grinding , was followed by a second , then a third ; at the fourth , the count knew what to expect .
“ The people are hurrying on , the soldiers under arms , and among the spectators I see D ’ Artagnan .
But all these reasons were combated , destroyed , overthrown , by that feeling of intimate pain which , on certain occasions , takes possession of our being , and cries to us so as to be understood unmistakably that some great misfortune is hanging over us .
“ Do you think he died a natural death ? ” A sort of smile was discernible on the motionless lips of Noirtier .
He would then be lost , and France , perhaps , with him .
Her skin was admired for its velvety softness ; her hands and arms were of surpassing beauty , all the poets of the time singing them as incomparable .
For some time nothing was heard in that chamber but sobs , exclamations , and prayers .
Bonacieux , “ we must have them back again. ” “ Yes , without doubt , it is necessary , ” cried the queen ; “ but how am I to act ?
Chapter XII .
Groslow jumped up , ashamed at being surprised in the midst of wine , cards , and dice .
“ What is it you want , dear grandpapa ? ” said Valentine , and she endeavored to recall to mind all the things which he would be likely to need ; and as the ideas presented themselves to her mind , she repeated them aloud , then , —finding that all her efforts elicited nothing but a constant _ “ No , ” _—she said , “ Come , since this plan does not answer , I will have recourse to another. ” She then recited all the letters of the alphabet from A down to N. When she arrived at that letter the paralytic made her understand that she had spoken the initial letter of the thing he wanted .
“ Will your excellency be so good as to mount the shoulders of two of our men , they will carry you ashore ? ” The young man answered this invitation with a gesture of indifference , and stepped out of the boat ; the sea immediately rose to his waist .
At last he arrived at the adventure of the preceding night , and the embarrassment in which he found himself placed by not having sufficient cash by six or seven hundred piastres to make up the sum required , and finally of his application to the count and the picturesque and satisfactory result that followed .
Undeceive yourself , comrade , you are not Monsieur de Tréville. ” “ My faith ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , recognizing Athos , who , after the dressing performed by the doctor , was returning to his own apartment .
D ’ Artagnan looked at Porthos .
“ Yes , yes , ” she said softly to Valentine , “ let her leave ; but do you stay. ” Madame de Villefort left , and Valentine remained alone beside the bed , for the procureur , overcome with astonishment at the unexpected death , had followed his wife .
Five minutes afterward Bazin set off on a full trot , urging on his horse by the blows of a parapluie , which he was in the habit of using instead of a riding whip .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , turning to those who were near him “ can any one of you speak Spanish and serve me as interpreter ? ” “ I can , my lord , ” said Raoul .
Athos smiled .
This time it _was_ the hour , and from this moment Milady waited with impatience .
Believe your own eyes. ” M. de Boville took the paper Danglars presented him , and read : “ Received of Baron Danglars the sum of five million one hundred thousand francs , to be repaid on demand by the house of Thomson & French of Rome. ” “ It is really true , ” said M. de Boville .
Well , what have I learned since ?
Dressed as Aramis had been the night before , the bishop got into his carriage , and the former , more disguised by his pallor and sad countenance than his deacon ’ s dress , got in by his side .
“ Well , ” said the baroness , “ do you leave M. Cavalcanti with your daughter ? ” “ And Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , ” said the banker ; “ do you consider her no one ? ” Then , turning to Monte Cristo , he said , “ Prince Cavalcanti is a charming young man , is he not ?
“ Her very self ; she gave it me last night .
Besides , I am here in my own country , and that excites me. ” And both , with free use of the spur , arrived at St. Omer without drawing bit .
Then a singular thing occurred .
You , Aramis , why the devil did you ask me for a uniform when you would have been so much better in a cassock ?
There only remains , then , the question of the five shillings to be settled .
A dull and heavy sound was heard , and the man dropped like an ox on his face , and then turned over on his back .
He pardoned , and having pardoned he remained .
D ’ Artagnan was radiant with joy and pride .
“ ‘ Yes , my lord. ’ “ ‘ How much were they worth ? ’ ” “ Why , ” said Porthos , “ that was very good of him , it seems to me. ” “ ‘ A thousand pistoles , ’ I said. ” “ A thousand pistoles ! ” Porthos exclaimed .
excellent ! ” said Aramis .
Two minutes a man makes four minutes .
Mercédès remained , therefore , by his bedside , and M. Morrel went away , making a sign to the Catalan that he had left his purse on the chimney-piece ; but , availing himself of the doctor ’ s order , the old man would not take any sustenance ; at length ( after nine days of despair and fasting ) , the old man died , cursing those who had caused his misery , and saying to Mercédès , ‘ If you ever see my Edmond again , tell him I die blessing him. ’ ” The abbé rose from his chair , made two turns round the chamber , and pressed his trembling hand against his parched throat .
I also know that her name is Valentine , and I have already prayed for her. ” “ Thank you , sir , ” said d ’ Avrigny ; “ since you have commenced your sacred office , deign to continue it .
I even think that with economy I could manage it with two thousand livres. ” “ Good God ! ” cried she , “ two thousand livres !
The Englishman received his thanks with the phlegm peculiar to his nation ; and Morrel , overwhelming him with grateful blessings , conducted him to the staircase .
And you really understand none of these signals ? ” “ None at all. ” “ And have you never tried to understand them ? ” “ Never .
Noirtier watched her with evident anguish .
Instead of returning the ball to me when I call for it from the top of the wall , he throws me another ; that other ball contains a letter .
What he had clearly gained in all this was the diamond , worth five or six thousand livres , which he wore on his finger ; and even this diamond—supposing that D ’ Artagnan , in his projects of ambition , wished to keep it , to make it someday a pledge for the gratitude of the queen—had not in the meanwhile , since he could not part with it , more value than the gravel he trod under his feet .
None can fly from a dungeon who can not walk. ” “ Well , we will wait , —a week , a month , two months , if need be , —and meanwhile your strength will return .
my dear Monsieur de Rochefort !
I thank you equally for the service you have rendered me in being my seconds .
“ Where were they taken ? ” asked Athos .
They employ him because they are afraid of him .
Except the recollection of the line of politics his father had adopted , and which might interfere , unless he acted with the greatest prudence , with his own career , Gérard de Villefort was as happy as a man could be .
Monte Cristo and Morcerf drew their seats towards a small table , on which were arranged music , drawings , and vases of flowers .
Madame de Villefort , who had not yet sufficiently recovered from her late emotion to allow of her entertaining visitors so immediately , retired to her bedroom , while the procureur , who could better depend upon himself , proceeded at once to the salon .
And then he—a wanderer on the earth , a man without fortune , a man without family , a soldier accustomed to inns , cabarets , taverns , and restaurants , a lover of wine forced to depend upon chance treats—was about to partake of family meals , to enjoy the pleasures of a comfortable establishment , and to give himself up to those little attentions which “ the harder one is , the more they please , ” as old soldiers say .
Grimaud obeyed .
An instant later , the jingling of spurs was heard upon the stairs , steps drew near , the door opened , and a man appeared .
All I ask is permission to remain abed. ” “ Would you like to have a physician called ? ” said the woman .
Well , suppose it is a bull-fight you are going to see ?
As to Athos , he remained unmoved .
“ It is at least a consolation to know that some who have so often risked their lives for us are safe .
“ Well , then , let it be war !
Our Béarnais was a prudent lad , however young he might be .
The queen then gave her orders , spoke of a banquet which the Marquis de Villequier was to give to her on the day after the morrow , indicated the persons she would admit to the honor of partaking of it , announced another visit on the following day to Val-de-Grace , where she intended to pay her devotions , and gave her commands to her senior valet to accompany her .
He sees us on the road which leads him to a bishopric , and perhaps will not be sorry to get us out of his way. ” “ Ah , as regards Aramis , that is another thing , ” said Porthos , “ and it wouldn ’ t surprise me at all. ” “ Perhaps Monsieur de Beaufort will try , in his turn , to lay hands on us. ” “ Nonsense !
Bonacieux and that the man was Aramis .
It must be observed that as a separate passage led to the first floor , in which D ’ Artagnan lodged , those who called on him were exempted from this detention .
“ Here ’ s one , your honor—— ” “ How the devil hast thou two horses ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , jumping on one of them .
“ _Salite ! _ ” said the count , in the same tone in which he would have given an order to his servant .
I must take care. ” Chapter XXXVII .
He took from the duke all the steel knives and silver forks and replaced them with silver knives and wooden forks , pretending that as he had been informed that the duke was to pass all his life at Vincennes , he was afraid of his prisoner attempting suicide .
“ Come , come , Signor Pastrini , no joking ; we must have a carriage. ” “ Sir , ” replied the host , “ we will do all in our power to procure you one—this is all I can say. ” “ And when shall we know ? ” inquired Franz .
“ Alone in the world , I had but my son , and he has left me ! ” “ He possesses a noble heart , madame , ” replied the count , “ and he has acted rightly .
On descending , we saw through the lattice-work several boats which were gradually becoming more distinct to our view .
and he is dead ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , sir , ” said D ’ Arminges , “ it is the common lot ; even an executioner is not exempted .
The king made his entrance into Paris on the twenty-third of December of the same year .
alack ! ” cried the cardinal , “ a Venetian glass ! ” “ Oh , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , quietly shutting the window , “ it is not worth while weeping yet , for probably an hour hence there will not be one of your mirrors remaining in the Palais Royal , whether they be Venetian or Parisian. ” “ But what do you advise , then ? ” asked Mazarin , trembling .
This was more than poor Bonacieux could endure , depressed as he was by the successive emotions which he had experienced ; he uttered a feeble groan which might have been taken for the last sigh of a dying man , and fainted .
But I too have had the idea you have , and two or three times the same fancy has come over me ; but I have always given it up .
And the four friends , guided by Mousqueton , took up the way toward the house , already almost restored to their former gayety ; for they were now , as Athos had said , all four once more united and of single mind .
He was a man of small stature , with hair blanched rather by suffering and sorrow than by age .
“ Madame ! ” exclaimed Athos , “ what were you saying just now about growing old ?
You leaned upon my arm—upon this , madame !
The second commissary was as much bewildered as the first had been by the simple and firm declaration of the Musketeer , upon whom he was anxious to take the revenge which men of the robe like at all times to gain over men of the sword ; but the name of M. de Tréville , and that of M. de la Trémouille , commanded a little reflection .
Creatures of the people , armed with halberds , guarding your doors .
That knife was for you , my lad ; she would have killed you .
“ Felton ! ” cried she .
It was useless to try to keep pace on foot with a carriage drawn by two powerful horses .
“ Everything goes as if in flowery paths. ” “ Everything goes too well , Porthos .
Pray tell me how. ” “ I separated the fat from the meat served to me , melted it , and so made oil—here is my lamp. ” So saying , the abbé exhibited a sort of torch very similar to those used in public illuminations .
And yet he did not wish to be at Paris when the count was there .
Be good enough to open to me , for I wish to announce to monsieur le comte that my master , one of his friends , is here , and wishes to greet him. ” “ Why didn ’ t you say so ? ” said the servitor , opening the gate .
The young man , with the intuitive perception of a lover , quickly understood the circumstances in which she was involuntarily placed , and he was comforted .
Have you been satisfied with him this voyage ? ” “ That is according to the sense you attach to the question , sir .
1.E.5 .
He would take advantage of the first moment of surprise , shame , and terror , to triumph over her .
Then the noble and severe countenance of Athos crossed his mind ; if he made the compact with the cardinal which he required , Athos would no more give him his hand—Athos would renounce him .
Are you still resolved to accompany me ? ” “ More determined than ever. ” “ Well , then , come along. ” Franz and the count went downstairs , accompanied by Peppino .
M. Danglars dined with me. ” “ I know it ; to avoid meeting him , my mother and I left town. ” “ But he met here M. Andrea Cavalcanti. ” “ Your Italian prince ? ” “ Not so fast ; M. Andrea only calls himself count. ” “ Calls himself , do you say ? ” “ Yes , calls himself. ” “ Is he not a count ? ” “ What can I know of him ?
“ Now this is not all , ” he said ; “ you can not live upon your fifteen thousand francs. ” “ I shall still have my place. ” “ No , you will lose it , for you are going to alter your correspondent ’ s message. ” “ Oh , sir , what are you proposing ? ” “ A jest. ” “ Sir , unless you force me—— ” “ I think I can effectually force you ; ” and Monte Cristo drew another packet from his pocket .
The cardinal has a tenacious memory and a long arm ; you may depend upon it , he will repay you by some ill turn. ” “ But of what sort ? ” “ Eh !
His head , supported by a long and flexible neck , issued from his large black robe , balancing itself with a motion very much like that of the tortoise thrusting his head out of his shell .
One evening he mixed a powerful narcotic with my water .
What do you say to this project ? ” The cardinal had listened without permitting a single fibre of his face to betray what he felt , and his smile remained as it ever was—false and flattering ; and when the queen finished speaking , he said : “ Do you think , madame , that France , agitated and disturbed as it is , would be a safe retreat for a dethroned king ?
“ Do you know that I die to-morrow at ten o ’ clock ? ” “ Something , your majesty , will happen between now and then to make the execution impossible. ” The king looked at Aramis with astonishment .
Baron Danglars is a good father , and knows how to calculate. ” “ In that case , ” said Andrea , “ everything is all right , excepting your refusal , which quite grieves me. ” “ You must attribute it only to natural scruples under similar circumstances. ” “ Well , ” said Andrea , “ let it be as you wish .
There is a certain fatality in it. ” “ Yes , you are right , D ’ Artagnan , a fatality that will separate and ruin us !
His desire for revenge had not forsaken him .
“ Oh no , it is as simple as possible , ” replied Monte Cristo .
Do you authorize Mademoiselle Valentine to intrust herself to my honor ? ” “ No. ” “ Do you prefer I should seek M. d ’ Épinay ? ” “ No. ” “ Whence then will come the help we need—from chance ? ” resumed Morrel .
On the evening of the ball Teresa was attired in her best , her most brilliant ornaments in her hair , and gayest glass beads , —she was in the costume of the women of Frascati .
It is an axiom of criminal law , and , consequently , you understand its full application. ” 30031m “ Sir , ” continued Villefort , “ there is something to fear besides death , old age , and madness .
“ Athos is so cool , so brave , and handles his sword so skillfully. ” “ No doubt .
“ But what were you to do with that woman ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , with anguish .
50231m “ Maximilian , ” said the count , “ you should not look on the graves , but there ; ” and he pointed upwards .
“ D ’ Artagnan , monsieur. ” “ Well , then , Athos , Porthos , Aramis , and D ’ Artagnan , forward ! ” cried Athos .
How D ’ Artagnan and Porthos earned by selling Straw .
One night Edmond awoke suddenly , believing that he heard someone calling him .
The Scotch army stood motionless and silent , seized with shame at sight of these preparations .
“ No , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ if I recollect well what you said , it was nothing out of the common way. ” “ Ah , you surprise me .
“ Order it as you please , sire ; you possess the right of pardon. ” “ The right of pardoning only applies to the guilty , ” said Tréville , who was determined to have the last word , “ and my Musketeer is innocent .
“ Ah , I have come now to what is most difficult. ” “ Speak , speak !
At length he met a belated passenger , went up to him , and spoke a few words to him .
The guards retired ; the room resumed its obscurity .
Remember your oath .
We can not fight with such names ; they are names of shepherds. ” “ Therefore your lordship may suppose they are only assumed names , ” said Athos .
“ But if I am to believe you , sir , the people seem to have thrown off all restraint. ” “ It is a bad year for kings , ” said Gondy , shaking his head ; “ look at England , madame. ” “ Yes ; but fortunately we have no Oliver Cromwell in France , ” replied the queen .
“ When do you want your twelve hundred francs ? ” said he to Caderousse .
“ Just so , ” replied Aramis .
The next day came and passed , the day after , a week ; I then wrote to the cardinal .
Danglars waited a moment , expecting the postilion to come and demand payment with the termination of his stage .
Come , come , Fernand , ” said Caderousse , “ hold up your head , and answer us .
No country can say it saw my birth .
Among these thousands moved , in bands numbering from one hundred to two hundred , pale and haggard men , clothed in rags , who bore a sort of standard on which was inscribed these words : “ Behold the misery of the people ! ” Wherever these men passed , frenzied cries were heard ; and there were so many of these bands that the cries were to be heard in all directions .
“ I trust your majesty will pardon this intrusion on her meditations , but a foreign lord has arrived from England and waits in the parlor , demanding the honor of presenting a letter to your majesty. ” “ Oh , a letter !
And the name of this lord ? ” “ Lord de Winter. ” “ Lord de Winter ! ” exclaimed the queen , “ the friend of my husband .
Almost immediately Bertuccio entered the apartment .
“ I am very sorry for what you tell me , ” said the governor , replying to the assurance of the doctor , “ that the old man is really dead ; for he was a quiet , inoffensive prisoner , happy in his folly , and required no watching. ” “ Ah , ” added the turnkey , “ there was no occasion for watching him ; he would have stayed here fifty years , I ’ ll answer for it , without any attempt to escape. ” “ Still , ” said the governor , “ I believe it will be requisite , notwithstanding your certainty , and not that I doubt your science , but in discharge of my official duty , that we should be perfectly assured that the prisoner is dead. ” There was a moment of complete silence , during which Dantès , still listening , knew that the doctor was examining the corpse a second time .
They said he was so accustomed to darkness that he could see a pin in the darkest corner of his dungeon. ” “ He spent fourteen years to arrive at that , ” muttered the count .
I have encountered misfortune in a high place , a royal misfortune , a European misfortune ; I attach myself to it .
Haydée ’ s nervous system is delicately organized , and she is peculiarly susceptible to the odors even of flowers—nay , there are some which cause her to faint if brought into her presence .
The French way of living is utterly unknown to me , and up to the present time I have followed the Eastern customs , which are entirely in contrast to the Parisian .
dear Du Vallon , does one forget the happiest days of flowery youth , one ’ s dearest friends , the dangers we have dared together ?
Count , to possess Valentine would have been a happiness too infinite , too ecstatic , too complete , too divine for this world , since it has been denied me ; but without Valentine the earth is desolate. ” “ I have told you to hope , ” said the count .
“ What ? ” said Porthos .
Look at the writing , and find if you can , any blemish in the language or orthography. ” The writing was , in reality , charming , and the orthography irreproachable .
And one of our boarders has suffered much from the vengeance and persecution of the cardinal ! ” “ One of your boarders ? ” said Milady ; “ oh , my God !
Valentine !
The Palace of Justice would not be burned down for everybody , monseigneur. ” “ You think , then , that the fire at the Palace of Justice was not caused by chance ? ” asked Richelieu , in the tone with which he would have put a question of no importance .
The guards were unable to help any one—each one was occupied with his self-preservation .
They were indeed two elegant horsemen , with figures slight and upright , noble faces , bright and proud looks , loyal and intelligent smiles .
“ Then you will start after the queen ? ” “ No , ” said Mazarin again .
One day , when he was seven years old , he came to the curate of Palestrina , and asked to be taught to read ; it was somewhat difficult , for he could not quit his flock ; but the good curate went every day to say mass at a little hamlet too poor to pay a priest and which , having no other name , was called Borgo ; he told Luigi that he might meet him on his return , and that then he would give him a lesson , warning him that it would be short , and that he must profit as much as possible by it .
what do you propose ? ” “ Zounds !
Felton believed he heard the singing of the angel who consoled the three Hebrews in the furnace .
As to love , the only woman he could have loved was Mme .
Neither of them spoke to him ; they merely stood aside to let him pass by , as usual , nothing more .
“ Does the House approve that the examination should take place today ? ” 40196m “ Yes , ” was the unanimous answer .
“ Am I come to a friend ? ” she asked in a tone full of mournful dignity .
Each one , stretching out his hand to the bag , took his seventy-five pistoles , and made his preparations to set out at the time appointed .
“ My patron died .
I ’ faith , Aramis , believe me , there is little left to regret .
“ I know that I ought never to name the persons who answer my questions , ” answered the child , “ for if I do I shall learn nothing further. ” At this very moment Mazarin entered .
a doctor ? ” “ He was a merchant , monsieur , and had succeeded to the business of my poor father .
“ The Pope is the successor of St. Peter , and represents the three divine powers ; the rest—_ordines inferiores_—of the ecclesiastical hierarchy bless in the name of the holy archangels and angels .
He saw then that he was with a poet .
While you are fighting if there is a fight , he must flee .
Ah , don ’ t be angry , I beg of you , that would be useless ; you know what is agreed upon between you , Athos and me .
If he had insisted upon the letter being given up to him , I would have presented the letter to him with one hand , and with the other I would have run my sword through his body. ” “ I expected as much , ” said Athos ; “ and that was why I threw myself between you and him .
I have a party at my house tonight , and therefore can not possibly remain till the end of the opera .
As all this , however , bore some resemblance to a duel , D ’ Artagnan began to recover himself little by little .
The lackeys were sent to their several posts , except that Grimaud lay on a truss of straw across the doorway .
Stay where you are ; I will go myself. ” And with a light step , an eye on the watch , observing the movements of the enemy and taking advantage of the accidents of the ground , D ’ Artagnan succeeded in reaching the second soldier .
He did not mention a syllable of your embarrassment to me , when he knows that , alone and isolated as I am , I seek every opportunity of making the acquaintance of my neighbors .
These keys were given up to him instantly .
Yes , and I would rather face your majesty , however threatening your smile , than face those demons who accompanied me hither and who sprung from I know not whence , unless from deepest hell. ” ( “ Bravo , ” said D ’ Artagnan in a whisper to Porthos ; “ well answered. ” ) “ Well , ” said the queen , biting her lips , whilst her courtiers looked at each other with surprise , “ what is the desire of my people ? ” “ That Broussel shall be given up to them , madame. ” “ Never ! ” said the queen , “ never ! ” “ Your majesty is mistress , ” said La Meilleraie , retreating a few steps .
“ You alone forewarned us of the evil ; now try and aid us with the remedy. ” “ Sire , ” said Villefort , “ the usurper is detested in the south ; and it seems to me that if he ventured into the south , it would be easy to raise Languedoc and Provence against him. ” “ Yes , assuredly , ” replied the minister ; “ but he is advancing by Gap and Sisteron. ” “ Advancing—he is advancing ! ” said Louis XVIII .
Gaetano skirted the light , carefully keeping the boat in the shadow ; then , when they were opposite the fire , he steered to the centre of the circle , singing a fishing song , of which his companions sung the chorus .
Albert attributed to Franz ’ s absence the extreme kindness of the fair peasant in raising her mask .
His ears had perceived sounds without comprehending them ; he might have been executed at that moment without his making a single gesture in his own defense or uttering a cry to implore mercy .
“ And you , ” said Athos , “ you forget that you committed a very different kind of imprudence in pronouncing Lord de Winter ’ s name .
She passed an hour without breathing , panting , with a cold sweat upon her brow , and her heart oppressed by frightful agony at every movement she heard in the corridor .
I congratulate you .
D ’ Artagnan rose , and taking a letter from his writing-desk , presented it to Raoul .
But with such men it is not the sword that should be employed ; it is the poniard. ” “ Buckingham had left England the day before , sent as ambassador to Spain , to demand the hand of the Infanta for King Charles I. , who was then only Prince of Wales .
This morning I awoke at six o ’ clock .
“ Never mind , ” continued the man in the cloak ; “ you were a fool not to have pretended to accept the mission .
“ Sir , ” said he , “ here is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ’ s answer. ” “ But I did not tell you there would be an answer , stupid ! ” said Athos .
“ And now let everyone retire. ” “ Must I go too ? ” asked Valentine timidly .
“ You approach that famous point of free will which is a mortal rock .
“ The town is in open revolt , and just now , as I was crossing the Rue Montorgueil with Monsieur du Vallon , who is here , and is your humble servant , they wanted in spite of my uniform , or perhaps because of my uniform , to make us cry ‘ Long live Broussel ! ’ and must I tell you , my lord what they wished us to cry as well ? ” “ Speak , speak. ” “ ‘ Down with Mazarin ! ’ I ’ faith , the treasonable word is out. ” Mazarin smiled , but became very pale .
“ What dost thou there , rascal ? ” asked Comminges .
But you know none are so formal as bankers in transacting business ; I intended this money for the charity fund , and I seemed to be robbing them if I did not pay them with these precise bonds .
Two windows only of the pavilion faced the street ; three other windows looked into the court , and two at the back into the garden .
for I presume it was when you left me that you went to visit her. ” “ At the Hotel de Ville , my dear fellow. ” “ What !
“ Sir ? ” “ My friend , my dear Maximilian , do not make a hasty resolution , I entreat you. ” “ I make a hasty resolution ? ” said Morrel , shrugging his shoulders ; “ is there anything extraordinary in a journey ? ” 50125m “ Maximilian , ” said the count , “ let us both lay aside the mask we have assumed .
We must explain this visit , which although expected by Monte Cristo , is unexpected to our readers .
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States .
A last but final hope was concealed by the young man in the effect of this interview , and therefore he had suggested it .
I serve the queen and that draws me naturally into the service of the cardinal ; but I serve the one with joy and the other against my will .
You do not know that every day of those fourteen years I renewed the vow of vengeance which I had made the first day ; and yet I was not aware that you had married Fernand , my calumniator , and that my father had died of hunger ! ” “ Can it be ? ” cried Mercédès , shuddering .
Remember that I write to you now to repeat how much affection for you I still cherish .
“ Stop !
Now , to see things which I can not understand , to procure impossibilities , these are the study of my life .
Thus , you see , though born in Paris , I was brought up in Corsica. ” There was a moment ’ s silence , during which one could have fancied the hall empty , so profound was the stillness .
“ Constance , Constance ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Are there not some Latin verses upon that subject ?
“ Yes , ” said Albert , blushing .
Milady may discover that you gave the first billet to my lackey instead of to the count ’ s ; that it is I who have opened the others which ought to have been opened by de Wardes .
“ You have asked for me ? ” said the Musketeer .
“ It is the first time he has ever been in Paris .
“ Halloo !
Dantès , meanwhile , went on his way .
“ My God , my God ! ” said she , “ thou knowest in what holy cause I suffer ; give me , then , strength to suffer. ” The door opened gently ; the beautiful supplicant pretended not to hear the noise , and in a voice broken by tears , she continued : “ God of vengeance !
In proportion as they redoubled the exorcisms he redoubled the temptations ; so that day and night the bell was ringing full swing , announcing the extreme desire for mortification which the penitent experienced .
Raoul resolved not to quit the room without having spoken to the beautiful girl with the soft eyes , who by a strange fancy , although she bore no resemblance , reminded him of his poor little Louise , whom he had left in the Chateau de la Valliere and whom , in the midst of all the party , he had never for one moment quite forgotten .
“ Shall we see you again to give us any information ? ” inquired the countess .
there ’ s another brave and excellent young man. ” “ Do you know him ? ” asked the officer .
No , all is over ! ” said Porthos .
You were told to guard her—to fire at her if she attempted to fly .
you know about it. ” “ Was I not your second ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
It seems to me the first care of government should be to set at liberty those who have suffered for their adherence to it. ” “ Do not be too hasty , M. Morrel , ” replied Villefort .
On the morning of the eighth day , Bazin , fresh as ever , and smiling , according to custom , entered the cabaret of the Parpaillot as the four friends were sitting down to breakfast , saying , as had been agreed upon : “ Monsieur Aramis , the answer from your cousin. ” The four friends exchanged a joyful glance ; half of the work was done .
Louis XIII .
At this sigh Felton turned round .
The Musketeer advanced two steps , and pushed D ’ Artagnan aside with his hand .
On approaching an outpost near the Barriere des Sergens , the sentinel cried out , “ Who ’ s there ? ” and D ’ Artagnan answered—having first asked the word of the cardinal— “ Louis and Rocroy. ” After which he inquired if Lieutenant Comminges were not the commanding officer at the outpost .
mon Dieu !
“ Ah , ” said he , dissembling his emotion under a feigned carelessness , “ do not talk of such things , and suffer love pains ?
Raoul motioned to the host to approach , threw a crown upon the table , mounted his horse , and posted his letter at Senlis .
Stay with grandpapa , Maximilian ; I promise you not to persuade them to stay. ” 40274m Morrel watched her as she left the room ; he heard her ascend the little staircase which led both to Madame de Villefort ’ s apartments and to hers .
At length Providence has done something for you ; he restores to you more than he takes away , and it was time I should die. ” Edmond could only clasp his hands and exclaim , “ Oh , my friend , my friend , speak not thus ! ” and then resuming all his presence of mind , which had for a moment staggered under this blow , and his strength , which had failed at the words of the old man , he said , “ Oh , I have saved you once , and I will save you a second time ! ” And raising the foot of the bed , he drew out the phial , still a third filled with the red liquor .
That which I have to say is too long , and above all , too secret. ” “ Well , what is to be done ? ” “ If Monsieur Chevalier would follow me ? ” said Kitty , timidly .
Are all these crimes committed on his account ? ” “ Ah , then you at length understand ? ” “ Heaven grant that this may not be visited upon him ! ” “ Valentine , you are an angel ! ” “ But why is my grandfather allowed to live ? ” “ It was considered , that you dead , the fortune would naturally revert to your brother , unless he were disinherited ; and besides , the crime appearing useless , it would be folly to commit it. ” “ And is it possible that this frightful combination of crimes has been invented by a woman ? ” “ Do you recollect in the arbor of the Hôtel des Postes , at Perugia , seeing a man in a brown cloak , whom your stepmother was questioning upon _aqua tofana_ ?
“ Then Cæsar and the pope hastened to lay hands on the heritage , under pretense of seeking for the papers of the dead man .
Mercédès extended her hand to the count .
On entering this holy place , the poor penitent was unable to shut the door so close as to prevent the passions he fled from entering with him .
If you will only repeat that avowal now and then , I can endure anything. ” “ Ah , Maximilian , that is the very thing that makes you so bold , and which renders me at once so happy and unhappy , that I frequently ask myself whether it is better for me to endure the harshness of my stepmother , and her blind preference for her own child , or to be , as I now am , insensible to any pleasure save such as I find in these meetings , so fraught with danger to both. ” “ I will not admit that word , ” returned the young man ; “ it is at once cruel and unjust .
The count will have his cushions of silver cloth brought there , and as he smokes his chibouque , see all Paris pass before him. ” “ You have no idea , then , Morrel ? ” asked Château-Renaud ; “ you do not propose anything. ” “ Oh , yes , ” returned the young man , smiling ; “ on the contrary , I have one , but I expected the count would be tempted by one of the brilliant proposals made him , yet as he has not replied to any of them , I will venture to offer him a suite of apartments in a charming hotel , in the Pompadour style , that my sister has inhabited for a year , in the Rue Meslay. ” “ You have a sister ? ” asked the count .
The two friends remained alone to speak of the future and to build castles in the air .
A slight color mounted to his cheeks .
Are there any more slaves to be had who bear this beautiful name ? ” “ Undoubtedly. ” “ Really , count , you do nothing , and have nothing like other people .
Forward ! ” Aramis , wounded as he was , seized the mane of his horse , which carried him on with the others .
Lucien , ” said the baroness , “ I assure you I have no desire to sleep , and that I have a thousand things to tell you this evening , which you must listen to , even though you slept while hearing me. ” “ I am at your service , madame , ” replied Lucien coldly .
Chapter 88 .
Franz and Albert made some difficulty , alleging their fear of depriving him of it ; but the count replied that , as he was going to the Palli Theatre , the box at the Argentina Theatre would be lost if they did not profit by it .
Since I became an abbé I dream of nothing but battles. ” “ That is apparent in your surroundings ; you have rapiers here of every form and to suit the most exacting taste .
Disguised as a monk he discovered the whole history in confession from the executioner of Bethune , and having confessed him , after having learned everything from him , he gave him absolution by planting this dagger into his heart .
Meanwhile his misgivings in regard to Mousqueton recurred to his mind and with greater force because Mousqueton , though he did not himself wait on the table , which would have been beneath him in his new position , appeared at the door from time to time and evinced his gratitude to D ’ Artagnan by the quality of the wine he directed to be served .
Between the two talkers there was just enough room for a man to pass .
“ Without doubt , senor ; and you understand that they would have saved the king. ” “ To be sure , ” said Porthos , with majestic common sense ; “ they were in the majority. ” “ And you think , ” said Aramis , “ he will consent to appear before such a tribunal ? ” “ He will be forced to do so , ” smiled the Spaniard .
“ But , first , ” interposed D ’ Artagnan , “ you must present me to Madame du Vallon. ” A third sigh from Porthos .
Well , then , see , here is a gentleman who had none of these resources at his disposal—a gentleman , only a simple magistrate , who learned more than you with all your police , and who would have saved my crown , if , like you , he had the power of directing a telegraph. ” The look of the minister of police was turned with concentrated spite on Villefort , who bent his head in modest triumph .
Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state ’ s laws .
“ You asked the name of that young lady .
Ah—— ” Madame Danglars had risen , and stood before the procureur , whose hands she wrung in her feeble grasp .
Give me your arm , and let us go. ” “ Very well , let us go , ” said Caderousse ; “ but I don ’ t want your arm at all .
Speak ! ” “ You condemned me to a horrible , tedious death ; you killed my father ; you deprived me of liberty , of love , and happiness. ” “ Who are you , then ?
Dantès was at length roused from his reverie by the voice of Faria , who , having also been visited by his jailer , had come to invite his fellow-sufferer to share his supper .
Did you forget that this great man , this hero , this demigod , is attacked with a malady of the skin which worries him to death , _prurigo_ ? ” “ And , moreover , my dear duke , ” continued the minister of police , “ we are almost assured that , in a very short time , the usurper will be insane. ” “ Insane ? ” “ Raving mad ; his head becomes weaker .
“ ‘ Well , ’ said a voice which vibrated in too terrible a manner in my ear not to be recognized , ‘ well !
Albert had himself presided at the arrangement , or , rather , the symmetrical derangement , which , after coffee , the guests at a breakfast of modern days love to contemplate through the vapor that escapes from their mouths , and ascends in long and fanciful wreaths to the ceiling .
I thought I was right in believing that Cavalcanti to be a stingy fellow .
Porthos maintained a majestic silence .
But , alas , I have heard it said that hearts inflamed by obstacles to their desire grew cold in time of security ; I trust we shall never find it so in our experience ! ” “ Oh , ” cried Morrel , almost tempted to throw himself on his knees before Noirtier and Valentine , and to adore them as two superior beings , “ what have I ever done in my life to merit such unbounded happiness ? ” “ Until that time , ” continued the young girl in a calm and self-possessed tone of voice , “ we will conform to circumstances , and be guided by the wishes of our friends , so long as those wishes do not tend finally to separate us ; in a word , and I repeat it , because it expresses all I wish to convey , —we will wait. ” “ And I swear to make all the sacrifices which this word imposes , sir , ” said Morrel , “ not only with resignation , but with cheerfulness. ” “ Therefore , ” continued Valentine , looking playfully at Maximilian , “ no more inconsiderate actions—no more rash projects ; for you surely would not wish to compromise one who from this day regards herself as destined , honorably and happily , to bear your name ? ” Morrel looked obedience to her commands .
At that moment Planchet put his head modestly in at the half-open door , and told his master that the horses were ready .
“ Nineteen , ” returned Dantès .
We must let them leave the village and ride after us on the northern road , and when they have passed we will take the opposite direction. ” There was a stream close by and a bridge across it .
They rode on in this way for ten minutes .
Two hours passed thus , during which I imagined I heard moans repeatedly .
On !
I knew a man who like you had fixed all his hopes of happiness upon a woman .
Porthos comprehended that this chest , although it did not correspond in shape with that which he had seen in his dreams , must be the blessed coffer , and he congratulated himself that the reality was several feet higher than the dream .
But no , the communication would not come through Madame de Villefort. ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because—I scarcely know why—but it has appeared as if Madame de Villefort secretly objected to the marriage , although she did not choose openly to oppose it. ” “ Is it so ?
Let them hold themselves in readiness to march to-night .
I can not help thinking it would have been a great pity to have served him that trick you were planning yesterday. ” “ Oh , there was no harm meant , ” answered Danglars ; “ at first I certainly did feel somewhat uneasy as to what Fernand might be tempted to do ; but when I saw how completely he had mastered his feelings , even so far as to become one of his rival ’ s attendants , I knew there was no further cause for apprehension. ” Caderousse looked full at Fernand—he was ghastly pale .
I am fond of these jars , upon which , perhaps , misshapen , frightful monsters have fixed their cold , dull eyes , and in which myriads of small fish have slept , seeking a refuge from the pursuit of their enemies. ” Meanwhile , Danglars , who had cared little for curiosities , was mechanically tearing off the blossoms of a splendid orange-tree , one after another .
Our charming Gascon has just proved himself as brave and faithful as ever .
An officer , as he spoke , entered the apartment .
“ Blaisois , ” replied Mousqueton , “ remember that bread is the true nourishment of a Frenchman , who is not always able to get bread , ask Grimaud. ” “ Yes , but beer ? ” asked Blaisois sharply , “ is that their true drink ? ” “ As to that , ” answered Mousqueton , puzzled how to get out of the difficulty , “ I must confess that to me beer is as disagreeable as wine is to the English. ” “ What !
The sides of the walls seem to close in , even to press against him .
“ My dear Danglars , ” said Morcerf , “ we have been acquainted for many years , and consequently we ought to make some allowance for each other ’ s failings .
It was evident either that he no longer possessed the confidence of his friend , or that Athos was bound by some invisible chain , or that he had been forewarned of the lieutenant ’ s visit .
“ Listen ; I am already upon the scent , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan .
“ Of the evil you have done , ” said the voice .
“ About half-past six. ” “ We will be with you at that time , ” said the major .
But this I know , that I had a mother , that five men leagued against one woman , murdered her clandestinely by night—silently—like cowards .
D ’ Artagnan , freely applying his spurs , was in advance of Porthos two feet at the most ; Mousqueton followed two lengths behind ; the guards were scattered according to the varying excellence of their respective mounts .
I do not deny the influence of which you speak , or that I have not myself experienced it , but with me it has been productive of evil rather than good. ” “ Well , Valentine , ” said Morrel with a sigh , “ we will not discuss the matter further .
“ You know very well that the last was stopped on his way , dashed on the rocks , and the governor told us next day that we were careless fellows. ” They ascended five or six more steps , and then Dantès felt that they took him , one by the head and the other by the heels , and swung him to and fro .
You wished it to be preceded by all these titles. ” “ It is quite wonderful , Mr. President , how entirely you have read my thoughts , ” said Benedetto , in his softest voice and most polite manner .
“ Allow me to observe , madame , ” said the count , with that kind tone he could assume so well , “ you are really very severe with that dear clever child. ” “ Oh , sometimes severity is quite necessary , ” replied Madame de Villefort , with all a mother ’ s real firmness .
In the meantime D ’ Artagnan , who had plunged into a bypath , continued his route and reached St .
But , ” said Caderousse , again smiling with the disagreeable expression he had before assumed , “ you must pay for it—you understand ? ” “ Well , what do you want ? ” “ I think that with a hundred francs a month—— ” “ Well ? ” “ I could live—— ” “ Upon a hundred francs ! ” “ Come—you understand me ; but that with—— ” “ With ? ” “ With a hundred and fifty francs I should be quite happy. ” “ Here are two hundred , ” said Andrea ; and he placed ten gold louis in the hand of Caderousse .
But the moment is come to keep your word ; I have reached my destination. ” “ And you will have nothing to fear on your return ? ” “ I shall have nothing to fear but robbers. ” “ And that is nothing ? ” “ What could they take from me ?
“ I must know , so that I may assist you if there is any chance. ” “ I know nothing about it , ” continued Aramis , “ but the cleverest , the bravest , the most devoted of us four said to me when I left him , ‘ Tell the king that to-morrow at ten o ’ clock at night , we shall carry him off. ’ He has said it and will do it. ” “ Tell me the name of that generous friend , ” said the king , “ that I may cherish for him an eternal gratitude , whether he succeeds or not. ” “ D ’ Artagnan , sire , the same who had so nearly rescued you when Colonel Harrison made his untimely entrance. ” “ You are , indeed , wonderful men , ” said the king ; “ if such things had been related to me I should not have believed them. ” “ Now , sire , ” resumed Aramis , “ listen to me .
“ Well , have you any news ? ” Athos asked .
“ I opened the door of the ante-room myself and I saw you enter at the end of the corridor. ” “ Because I was shown up the private stairs. ” “ How so ? ” “ I know not ; it must have been a mistake. ” Mazarin was aware that it was not easy to make D ’ Artagnan reveal anything he was desirous of hiding , so he gave up , for the time , the discovery of the mystery the Gascon was concealing .
Remember your promise. ” In five minutes the party entered the courtyard and D ’ Artagnan led the prisoner up the great staircase and across the corridor and ante-chamber .
1.C .
Alas , like most things in this world which have nothing in their favor but appearances , the baldric was glittering with gold in the front , but was nothing but simple buff behind .
“ Behind this wall ?
I shall perhaps find myself one day called out by some harebrained scamp , who has no more real cause of quarrel with me than you have with Beauchamp ; he may take me to task for some foolish trifle or other , he will bring his witnesses , or will insult me in some public place , and I am expected to kill him for all that. ” “ You admit that you would fight , then ?
“ Let us see the ground floor , ” said Caderousse .
This time we were the vultures ; so we opened the bird , and this time all special symptoms had disappeared , there were only general symptoms .
An hour after they stepped into their calash , both dressed in feminine attire .
“ Night arrived ; I allowed it to become quite dark .
D ’ Artagnan lost no time in useless compliments .
“ This is the second or third time , monsieur , that you have repeated that name , and yet I have told you that I do not know him. ” “ You do not know the man at whose shutter you have just knocked ?
“ I do not like to disturb those who pray , madame , ” said Felton , seriously ; “ do not disturb yourself on my account , I beseech you. ” “ How do you know I was praying , sir ? ” said Milady , in a voice broken by sobs .
The elder prisoner pondered the matter .
INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation , the trademark owner , any agent or employee of the Foundation , anyone providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreement , and any volunteers associated with the production , promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works , harmless from all liability , costs and expenses , including legal fees , that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur : ( a ) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg™ work , ( b ) alteration , modification , or additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work , and ( c ) any Defect you cause .
Andrea had taken the precaution to leave no traces of his feet in the ashes , but still it was an outlet , and in this light was not to be passed over without serious investigation .
Firstly , at a given signal , which shall be the words ‘ At last , ’ you each plunge a dagger into the heart of the soldier nearest to you .
I assure you that , as long as I live , I shall never love anyone else ! ” “ Do you think to reassure me when you say that , Maximilian ? ” “ Pardon me , you are right .
It was the Island of Tiboulen .
Chapter XLVIII .
Ghosts At first sight , the exterior of the house at Auteuil gave no indications of splendor , nothing one would expect from the destined residence of the magnificent Count of Monte Cristo ; but this simplicity was according to the will of its master , who positively ordered nothing to be altered outside .
Conspiracy Danglars followed Edmond and Mercédès with his eyes until the two lovers disappeared behind one of the angles of Fort Saint Nicolas ; then , turning round , he perceived Fernand , who had fallen , pale and trembling , into his chair , while Caderousse stammered out the words of a drinking-song .
“ I do not wish to cause you any remorse ; believe me , then , when I swear to you that you have wronged no man , but on the contrary have benefited mankind. ” The man looked at the bank-notes , felt them , counted them , turned pale , then red , then rushed into his room to drink a glass of water , but he had no time to reach the water-jug , and fainted in the midst of his dried herbs .
Behold , madame !
Better , then , pursue our enterprise ; from which , besides , we can not retreat without shame .
D ’ Artagnan went to the window with his habitual composure .
“ I am lost ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself .
As for Grimaud , his hair stood on end and drops of sweat ran down his brow .
This time it was a great matter that was under discussion , connected with a vessel laden with Turkey carpets , stuffs of the Levant , and cashmeres .
Some of your people have committed the strangest mistake—they have just arrested Edmond Dantès , mate of my vessel. ” “ I know it , monsieur , ” replied Villefort , “ and I am now going to examine him. ” “ Oh , ” said Morrel , carried away by his friendship , “ you do not know him , and I do .
The Monk .
The same flower of innocence had flourished , or was still flourishing , on their brow , that is seen on the brow of the culprit in your house. ” 40120m Villefort shrieked , clasped his hands , and looked at the doctor with a supplicating air .
“ He tells me he served your illustrious father , and that he owes his fortune to him. ” “ Wretch ! ” exclaimed Haydée , her eyes flashing with rage ; “ he sold my father to the Turks , and the fortune he boasts of was the price of his treachery !
Still further , in Buckingham ’ s lodging , which he had been forced to abandon more precipitately than he expected , papers were found which confirmed this alliance and which , as the cardinal asserts in his memoirs , strongly compromised Mme .
The procureur went out , after having double-locked the door .
At first my neck was cramped with looking at it , but at the end of a year I became used to it ; and then we have our hours of recreation , and our holidays. ” “ Holidays ? ” “ Yes. ” “ When ? ” “ When we have a fog. ” “ Ah , to be sure. ” “ Those are indeed holidays to me ; I go into the garden , I plant , I prune , I trim , I kill the insects all day long. ” “ How long have you been here ? ” “ Ten years , and five as a supernumerary make fifteen. ” “ You are—— ” “ Fifty-five years old. ” “ How long must you have served to claim the pension ? ” “ Oh , sir , twenty-five years. ” “ And how much is the pension ? ” “ A hundred crowns. ” “ Poor humanity ! ” murmured Monte Cristo .
Bonacieux ; “ help ! ” Then , collecting all her strength , she took the head of the young man between her hands , looked at him for an instant as if her whole soul passed into that look , and with a sobbing cry pressed her lips to his .
But as there were all kinds of people about , who were in a state of stupefaction at the unexpected arrival of the court , he whispered in his friend ’ s ear .
We have observed that young cavaliers received presents from their king without shame .
This second attack was much more violent than the first , and he had slipped from the couch to the ground , where he was writhing in agony .
“ My daughter , ” continued the banker , “ you have perfectly explained to me the sentiments which influence a girl like you , who is determined she will not marry ; now it remains for me to tell you the motives of a father like me , who has decided that his daughter shall marry. ” Eugénie bowed , not as a submissive daughter , but as an adversary prepared for a discussion .
It is true that the indulgence of his foster-mother encouraged him .
“ Have you not mentioned that name to me ? ” As for De Winter he could scarcely believe that he had heard aright .
“ Stop !
But at daybreak he awoke .
Athos rose , walked toward his friend with a slow and solemn step , embraced him tenderly , and as he burst into violent sobs , he said to him with his noble and persuasive voice , “ Friend , be a man !
‘ The road is never very safe during fair time. ’ “ ‘ Oh , as to the robbers , ’ said Joannes , ‘ here is something for them , ’ and he drew from his pocket a pair of small pistols , loaded to the muzzle .
“ Laporte , ” said the queen , “ it is time for his majesty to go to bed. ” The king asked to remain up , having , he said , no wish to sleep ; but the queen was firm .
“ Egad !
He recollected the call he had made upon him after the dinner at Auteuil , and then the visit the abbé had himself paid to his house on the day of Valentine ’ s death .
You are the only man of whom I have heard her speak with interest. ” Albert rose and took his hat ; the count conducted him to the door .
“ What ails you , my dearest father ?
No , she must have conceived some pathetic scene ; she will come and throw herself between us ; and what would be sublime here will there appear ridiculous. ” The blush of pride mounted to the count ’ s forehead as this thought passed through his mind .
“ He has gone , ” said he , “ and the house door is shut. ” “ He has gone to make his report , and to say that all the pigeons are at this moment in the dovecot. ” “ Well , then , let us all fly , ” said Athos , “ and leave nobody here but Planchet to bring us news. ” “ A minute .
You need not awaken the coachman ; Ali will drive. ” In a very short time the noise of wheels was heard , and the carriage stopped at the door .
“ But how shall I address the minister ? ” “ Sit down there , ” said Villefort , giving up his place to Morrel , “ and write what I dictate. ” “ Will you be so good ? ” “ Certainly .
“ Listen attentively. ” “ Alas , ” stammered Villefort , “ I do not lose a single word. ” “ M .
Now lift me on my bed , for I can no longer support myself. ” Edmond took the old man in his arms , and laid him on the bed .
“ Do you know , sir , that you are asking me very strange questions , and that I am very foolish to answer them ? ” “ Reply to them , my Lord , ” said Felton ; “ the circumstances are more serious than you perhaps believe. ” Buckingham reflected that the young man , coming from Lord de Winter , undoubtedly spoke in his name , and softened .
“ Then , ” said the two women to Emmanuel , “ we are indeed ruined. ” It was agreed in a brief council held among them , that Julie should write to her brother , who was in garrison at Nîmes , to come to them as speedily as possible .
The moment the hand of Bonacieux sounded on the door , the two young people felt their hearts bound within them .
I hate him so little that I should be delighted to order masses for the repose of his soul. ” “ You are not called ‘ Lionne ’ for nothing , ” observed Madame de Chevreuse , “ your teeth are terrible. ” “ You are unjust to a great poet , it seems to me , ” Raoul ventured to say .
Besides , you will always have your charms left to seduce them with .
CONCLUSION On the sixth of the following month the king , in compliance with the promise he had made the cardinal to return to La Rochelle , left his capital still in amazement at the news which began to spread itself of Buckingham ’ s assassination .
“ With two companions , yes , ” replied the duke .
“ Who art thou ?
“ In that case I should beat a retreat .
He was a Picard , whom the glorious Musketeer had picked up on the Bridge Tournelle , making rings and plashing in the water .
You will bind yourself , ” cried the king , “ by what Monsieur de la Trémouille shall say ? ” “ Yes , sire. ” “ You will accept his judgment ? ” “ Undoubtedly. ” “ And you will submit to the reparation he may require ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ La Chesnaye , ” said the king .
Porthos had his fits .
But all the time he was in Paris , you , of course , did not lose sight of him ? ” “ No , sire. ” “ Where did he lodge ? ” “ Rue de la Harpe .
“ In heaven ’ s name ! ” cried the unhappy young man , “ if you doubt me , question me ; I will answer you. ” Villefort made a violent effort , and in a tone he strove to render firm : “ Sir , ” said he , “ I am no longer able , as I had hoped , to restore you immediately to liberty ; before doing so , I must consult the trial justice ; what my own feeling is you already know. ” “ Oh , monsieur , ” cried Dantès , “ you have been rather a friend than a judge. ” 0105m “ Well , I must detain you some time longer , but I will strive to make it as short as possible .
“ I believe , and I repeat it to your Majesty , that the queen conspires against the power of the king , but I have not said against his honor. ” “ And I—I tell you against both .
D ’ Artagnan then only half-lied , which is lying but little , when he said that by going in search of Milady he at the same time went in search of Constance .
But , under the present circumstances , I am justified in doubting the wisdom of an old man who , because he hated the father , vents his anger on the son .
My servants are examining the bodies. ” “ Let us go and see whether they are quite dead , or if they can still be helped , ” suggested Raoul .
Well , Mercédès , beloved by you , I would tempt fortune ; you would bring me good luck , and I should become rich .
Again , you make a profit upon each article you purchase for my toilet , amounting in the course of a year to a sum equalling your wages. ” “ Nay , indeed , your excellency. ” “ I am not condemning you for this , Monsieur Baptistin ; but let your profits end here .
“ No , madame , on the honor of a soldier , on the faith of a Christian. ” “ What , you are ignorant of Lord de Winter ’ s designs upon me ? ” “ I am. ” “ Impossible ; you are his confidant ! ” “ I never lie , madame. ” “ Oh , he conceals them too little for you not to divine them. ” “ I seek to divine nothing , madame ; I wait till I am confided in , and apart from that which Lord de Winter has said to me before you , he has confided nothing to me. ” “ Why , then , ” cried Milady , with an incredible tone of truthfulness , “ you are not his accomplice ; you do not know that he destines me to a disgrace which all the punishments of the world can not equal in horror ? ” “ You are deceived , madame , ” said Felton , blushing ; “ Lord de Winter is not capable of such a crime. ” “ Good , ” said Milady to herself ; “ without thinking what it is , he calls it a crime ! ” Then aloud , “ The friend of that wretch is capable of everything. ” “ Whom do you call _that wretch ? _ ” asked Felton .
Dantès had entered the Château d ’ If with the round , open , smiling face of a young and happy man , with whom the early paths of life have been smooth , and who anticipates a future corresponding with his past .
He found with pleasure that his captivity had taken away nothing of his power , and that he was still master of that element on whose bosom he had so often sported as a boy .
“ The Count of Monte Cristo acts dishonorably to M. de Morcerf , and is justified by his son !
I shall see everything , and at the least suspicious sign I shall begin to exterminate. ” “ Bravo ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ on this side I think the cardinal will be well guarded. ” He pressed the hand of the lord of Pierrefonds and went in search of Athos .
While the boat was advancing with all the speed its four rowers could give it , Felton untied the cord and then the handkerchief which bound Milady ’ s hands together .
Milady gazed with all the power of her attention ; it was just light enough for her to see who was coming .
Besides , she felt as we feel when a storm is coming on—that this issue was near , and could not fail to be terrible .
D ’ Artagnan did the same .
Monsieur le Prince is led by the coadjutor , who is led by Madame de Guemenee. ” “ Therefore , madame , I ask you to look , not among your friends of to-day , but among those of other times. ” “ Among my friends of other times ? ” said the queen .
Do you know what those three windows were worth ? ” “ Two or three hundred Roman crowns ? ” “ Two or three thousand. ” “ The deuce ! ” “ Does his island produce him such a revenue ? ” “ It does not bring him a bajocco. ” “ Then why did he purchase it ? ” “ For a whim. ” “ He is an original , then ? ” “ In reality , ” observed Albert , “ he seemed to me somewhat eccentric ; were he at Paris , and a frequenter of the theatres , I should say he was a poor devil literally mad .
Adieu , and a prosperous voyage .
He also , Morrel , like you , considered himself the unhappiest of men. ” “ Well ? ” asked Morrel .
“ Everything points to the conclusion , sire , ” said the minister of police , “ that death was not the result of suicide , as we first believed , but of assassination .
The horses , impelled by fear , flew towards the house .
we are lost ! ” In the meantime , the ferryboat had floated away , carried down by the stream , and the shrieks of those whom it contained resounded more and more .
At other times he would return home to write a treatise , and requested his friends not to disturb him .
I believe that I alone , of all my countrymen , survived that dreadful war .
D ’ Artagnan , sick of the closeness of Paris , thought that when a man had three names of his different estates joined one to another , he ought to be very happy in such a paradise ; then he shook his head , saying , “ If I were Porthos and D ’ Artagnan came to make me such a proposition as I am going to make to him , I know what I should say to it. ” As to Planchet , he thought of little or nothing , but was happy as a hunting-hound in his old master ’ s company .
The count leaned over her and raised her in his arms ; and seeing that sweet pale face , those lovely eyes closed , that beautiful form motionless and to all appearance lifeless , the idea occurred to him for the first time , that perhaps she loved him otherwise than as a daughter loves a father .
They set out , passing over the Pont Neuf ; they pursued their way along the quay then called L ’ Abreuvoir Pepin , and went along by the walls of the Grand Chatelet .
At the same hour as on the preceding evening , D ’ Artagnan retired .
D ’ Artagnan seized the hands of Athos with an anguish difficult to be described .
In front of them the Lys rolled its waters like a river of molten tin ; while on the other side was a black mass of trees , profiled on a stormy sky , invaded by large coppery clouds which created a sort of twilight amid the night .
“ Ah , madame , ” cried Debray , “ what is the matter with you ?
You are no longer in my service , Monsieur Bertuccio. ” “ Oh , your excellency , your excellency ! ” cried the steward , struck with terror at this threat , “ if that is the only reason I can not remain in your service , I will tell all , for if I quit you , it will only be to go to the scaffold. ” “ That is different , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ but if you intend to tell an untruth , reflect it were better not to speak at all. ” “ No , monsieur , I swear to you , by my hopes of salvation , I will tell you all , for the Abbé Busoni himself only knew a part of my secret ; but , I pray you , go away from that plane-tree .
What time do you breakfast , Albert ? ” “ At half-past ten. ” “ Precisely ? ” asked Debray , taking out his watch .
I was now safe , for I could swim along the ditch without being seen , and I reached the canal in safety .
The two men in black rose , bowed to Aramis and D ’ Artagnan , and advanced toward the door .
They entered the roadstead ; but as they drew near in order to cast anchor , a little cutter , looking like a coastguard formidably armed , approached the merchant vessel and dropped into the sea a boat which directed its course to the ladder .
Having obtained the address of the person to whom the house in the Allées de Meilhan belonged , Dantès next proceeded thither , and , under the name of Lord Wilmore ( the name and title inscribed on his passport ) , purchased the small dwelling for the sum of twenty-five thousand francs , at least ten thousand more than it was worth ; but had its owner asked half a million , it would unhesitatingly have been given .
But neither in the street he had passed through , nor in the one which his eager glance pervaded , could he see anyone ; however slowly the stranger had walked , he was gone on his way , or perhaps had entered some house .
Then , with the intention quite patent of not drawing back a foot from the accomplishment of the commission with which he was charged , and as the attendant of an executioner might have done in the chamber of torture , he approached Anne of Austria , from whose eyes at the same instant sprang tears of rage .
You have told me yourself , madame , that I have been drawn into a snare ; I , perhaps , may leave my life in it—for , although it may be strange , I have for some time had a presentiment that I should shortly die. ” And the duke smiled , with a smile at once sad and charming .
“ Now , ” said Monte Cristo , “ that you have fortified yourself against all painful excitement , prepare yourself , my dear M. Cavalcanti , to meet your lost Andrea. ” Saying which Monte Cristo bowed , and disappeared behind the tapestry , leaving the major fascinated beyond expression with the delightful reception which he had received at the hands of the count .
Then he had a moment ’ s hesitation .
The cardinal there awaited Louis XIII .
Only to think of it makes my flesh crawl .
There he had a chair made on his own plan , and one day , visiting Anne of Austria in this chair , she asked him , charmed as she was with his wit , if he did not wish for a title .
The Vicomte de Bragelonne , who will have the honor of remitting this letter to your majesty , is the friend of my son , who owes to him his life ; he is a gentleman in whom your majesty may confide entirely , in case your majesty may have some verbal or written order to remit to me .
You are right—he is worth us all , and we avow it to you ! ” “ Aramis , ” said Athos , “ are you jesting ? ” “ No , no , dear friend ; I state only what we all know .
“ Ah , monseigneur , how dearly have I paid for that fault , unhappy wretch as I am ! ” “ That gentleman , I say , what has become of him ? ” “ Deign to listen to me , monseigneur , and be merciful !
“ I demand admittance , ” said a loud voice outside the room , “ in the name of the law ! ” As no attempt was made to prevent it , the door was opened , and a magistrate , wearing his official scarf , presented himself , followed by four soldiers and a corporal .
Scarcely had he shut her door , when Mercédès called a confidential servant , and ordered him to follow Albert wherever he should go that evening , and to come and tell her immediately what he observed .
Albert let himself be pressed just as long as friendship required , and then avowed to Franz that he would do him a great favor by allowing him to occupy the carriage alone the next day .
Marie Michon , who made the most charming cavalier in the world , pushed open the door , put her head in and asked for hospitality .
M. de Morcerf will accompany me. ” Bertuccio obeyed and despatched a courier to Pontoise to say the travelling-carriage would arrive at six o ’ clock .
But tell me—— ” “ Well , what do you wish to know ? ” “ Will not the Count of Monte Cristo be here tonight ? ” “ Seventeen ! ” replied Albert .
“ Are you sure that no one is aware of the queen ’ s project ? ” Mazarin reflected .
Whew !
Franz hastened to inquire after the count , and to express regret that he had not returned in sufficient time ; but Pastrini reassured him by saying that the Count of Monte Cristo had ordered a second carriage for himself , and that it had gone at four o ’ clock to fetch him from the Rospoli Palace .
Tomorrow you shall be free. ’ “ I had but one wish ; that was that he should kill me .
“ Oh !
For him , the cardinal was only an officer coming to visit a lady .
Well , while taking my walk I will call on him and we will talk .
If you are not located in the United States , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook .
“ Monsieur Porthos !
I thought I had quite , ” said Groslow .
Then they lift and sink again , and both go under at once .
25 ; the other in the Rue de la Harpe , No .
“ And you obeyed ? ” “ Father , that woman was a monster .
Turn Chartreux or Trappist , and relate your secrets , but , as for me , I do not like anyone who is alarmed by such phantasms , and I do not choose that my servants should be afraid to walk in the garden of an evening .
Then the king , who , without our suspecting it , had overheard our conversation , interrupted us by saying , ‘ Villefort ’ —observe that the king did not pronounce the word Noirtier , but , on the contrary , placed considerable emphasis on that of Villefort— ‘ Villefort , ’ said his majesty , ‘ is a young man of great judgment and discretion , who will be sure to make a figure in his profession ; I like him much , and it gave me great pleasure to hear that he was about to become the son-in-law of the Marquis and Marquise de Saint-Méran .
In ensnaring me you have fallen into the trap yourselves .
“ Let the cardinal take care of going alone to visit the Comte de la Fere , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for the count must be furious. ” Comminges began to laugh .
“ He saw that it was a merciless war between us—a war to the death .
I appreciate your calm reasoning .
“ In the name of heaven , madame , ” said Villefort , “ where is the doctor ?
From this moment I declare the vendetta against you , so protect yourself as well as you can , for the next time we meet your last hour has come. ’ And before he had recovered from his surprise , I opened the door and left the room. ” “ Well , well , ” said Monte Cristo , “ such an innocent looking person as you are to do those things , M. Bertuccio , and to a king ’ s attorney at that !
“ Come , vicomte , ” he said , “ it is time for you to go to bed ; you will start in the morning for the army of monsieur le prince .
“ Then all became clear and manifest to me , and I reproached myself with what had happened , as though I myself had done the guilty deed .
What do you mean by that ?
This evening M. Coquenard is going to the house of the Duc de Chaulnes , who has sent for him .
On seeing them Athos and Aramis stood still .
By that means all our secrets will remain in the family. ” “ Insolent ! ” cried Milady ; and as if acted upon by a spring , she bounded toward the baron , who awaited her attack with his arms crossed , but nevertheless with one hand on the hilt of his sword .
Was it not so you were called when your honored brother married us ?
Then among them glided like a pure ray , like a Christian angel in the midst of Olympus , one of those chaste figures , those calm shadows , those soft visions , which seemed to veil its virgin brow before these marble wantons .
At the first word the cardinal spoke of Mme .
At the same time , Aramis made his appearance at the other end of the street upon a superb English charger .
Monte Cristo concealed himself behind a large tomb and awaited the arrival of Morrel , who by degrees approached the tomb now abandoned by spectators and workmen .
for you hear that , instead of becoming calmer , the noise increases. ” “ Madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ the people want to see the king and they must see him. ” “ What !
“ Yes , I. ” “ I think , sir , you exaggerate your situation , ” said Madame Danglars , whose beautiful eyes sparkled for a moment .
Indeed , M. Beauchamp , it is quite laughable. ” “ Yet , ” replied Beauchamp haughtily , “ there are occasions when probity commands—— ” “ M .
“ Sir , ” said Villefort , after the first salutations were over , “ you were sent for by M. Noirtier , whom you see here .
On reaching La Storta , the point from whence Rome is first visible , the traveller evinced none of the enthusiastic curiosity which usually leads strangers to stand up and endeavor to catch sight of the dome of Saint Peter ’ s , which may be seen long before any other object is distinguishable .
and who was he ? ” “ ’ Twas that low fellow , Bonacieux. ” And Porthos , enchanted at having relieved his mind , rejoined Mousqueton and they disappeared around an angle of the street .
As you said , we have acquired glory , and were enabled to carry on a conversation of the highest importance. ” “ Which we can resume now without anybody suspecting us , for , with the help of God , we shall henceforth pass for cardinalists. ” That evening D ’ Artagnan went to present his respects to M. Dessessart , and inform him of his promotion .
His company was on guard at the Louvre ; he was at the Louvre with his company .
The queen read it , recognized the writing , and , since there were no details in it of what had occurred , asked for particulars .
Some voices even added : “ Long live the marshal ! ” But all took up the cry in chorus : “ Down with Mazarin ! ” The crowd gave place , the barricade was opened , and the marshal , with the remnant of his company , retreated , preceded by Friquet and his bandits , some of them making a presence of beating drums and others imitating the sound of the trumpet .
Despite the weight of two bodies , the blast of the hurricane shook them in the air .
“ We are safe on that side , ” said Buckingham , turning toward D ’ Artagnan .
Come , don ’ t look so angry , and you shall have 4,000 francs of the money to do what you like with , and Eugénie shall have 2,000 .
In about half an hour the girls went away , and Maximilian understood that Mademoiselle Danglars ’ visit had at last come to an end .
On the contrary , ” he added , laughing , “ if they want to see their Stuart they shall see him .
Well , if so , why do you object to my doing so ? ” “ I do not say that you ought not to fight , I only say that a duel is a serious thing , and ought not to be undertaken without due reflection. ” “ Did he reflect before he insulted my father ? ” “ If he spoke hastily , and owns that he did so , you ought to be satisfied. ” “ Ah , my dear count , you are far too indulgent. ” “ And you are far too exacting .
“ Oh , ” he cried , in an accent of despair , “ the count has deceived me ; I am yet living ; ” and extending his hand towards the table , he seized a knife .
She went straight to the group of which her husband formed the centre .
The carriage is at the door ; you bid me adieu ; you mount the step to embrace me a last time ; my brother ’ s servant , who comes to fetch me , is told how to proceed ; he makes a sign to the postillion , and we set off at a gallop. ” “ But D ’ Artagnan !
The host , fearful of consequences , with the help of his servants carried the wounded man into the kitchen , where some trifling attentions were bestowed upon him .
Daggers and swords were just about to shine , when suddenly the door was thrown open and Harrison appeared in the doorway , accompanied by a man enveloped in a large cloak .
“ Well , ” said Porthos to Aramis , “ we must do something. ” “ Monsieur is full of generosity , ” said Athos .
Black figures are seen scattered over the long white avenues ; the silence of earth and heaven is alone broken by the noise made by the crackling branches of hedges planted around the monuments ; then follows the melancholy chant of the priests , mingled now and then with a sob of anguish , escaping from some woman concealed behind a mass of flowers .
There was a moment of trouble and confusion in the assembly .
I will efface that blot on my father ’ s character .
Pray tell me how it happened. ” “ Willingly .
I am but a minister , who wants no servants , being myself nothing but a servant of the queen ’ s .
The duke was at Windsor hunting with the king .
Tréville understood admirably the war method of that period , in which he who could not live at the expense of the enemy must live at the expense of his compatriots .
“ Do you not see that the wind has blown off my hat ? ” Aramis rushed after the fugitive hat .
“ Do you hear anything ? ” said she .
The Villefort Family Vault Chapter 75 .
Desire the French attendants not to weary her with questions , but merely to pay their respectful duty and retire .
But tell me , what were you thinking about when I came in ? ” “ Oh , I was arranging a little surprise for you. ” “ Indeed .
“ Yes , madame , I expected nothing less from the justice of your majesty .
I will read you the first canto .
It was nothing but a plan of attack against the cardinal .
They immediately all three halted , closed in , and waited , occupying the middle of the road .
He felt assured that the perfect indiscretion of his friend would duly inform him of all that happened ; and as , during three years that he had travelled all over Italy , a similar piece of good fortune had never fallen to his share , Franz was by no means sorry to learn how to act on such an occasion .
( “ And what will he promise us ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ I know them by their romantic imagination .
But Madame Henrietta is a daughter of France and was entitled to the hospitality of France .
“ Yes , ” murmured Flamarens , lowering his eyes .
The three composing our forlorn hope were deliberating whether they should proceed any further , when all at once a circle of smoke enveloped the giant of stone , and a dozen balls came whistling around D ’ Artagnan and his companions .
Well , as he means to enter the Church at the same time as myself , he does not despair of becoming Pope in his turn , or at least a cardinal .
As to Athos , faithful to his system of reticence , he contented himself with interrogating D ’ Artagnan by a look .
But D ’ Artagnan stopped his hand and in a hoarse voice cried , “ Wait ! ” Athos stopped .
Besides , he feared that by resisting longer he should appear selfish in the eyes of Athos .
Tell them to take arms , to come here , and to run !
Monsieur de Beaufort or Monsieur le Prince. ” “ But Monsieur le Prince is to set out for the army ; he is entirely devoted to the cardinal. ” “ Oh oh ! ” said Aramis , “ there are questions between them at this very moment .
The sweat streamed down his marble forehead , and his hand , under his coat , tore his breast .
Send him away or you will never make a man of him. ” “ I think I shall send him to Paris. ” “ So ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan , and it seemed to him that the moment for attack had arrived .
Then he returned hastily , shut his door carefully , and began to study , like a clever architect , the plan Andrea had left him .
“ It is a charming place , well supplied with spring-water and fine trees ; a comfortable habitation , although abandoned for a long time , without reckoning the furniture , which , although old , is yet valuable , now that old things are so much sought after .
“ Oh , sir , ” she stammered , “ I beseech you , do not believe appearances. ” “ Are you , then , a coward ? ” cried Villefort , in a contemptuous voice .
“ Horrible ! ” replied Raoul , “ especially in expression. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said De Guiche , “ a strange face ; but these monks are subject to such degrading practices ; their fasts make them pale , the blows of the discipline make them hypocrites , and their eyes become inflamed through weeping for the good things of this life we common folk enjoy , but they have lost. ” “ Well , ” said Raoul , “ the poor man will get his priest , but , by Heaven , the penitent appears to me to have a better conscience than the confessor .
At this moment the door of the dining room unclosed with a creak , and Porthos perceived through the half-open flap the little clerk who , not being allowed to take part in the feast , ate his dry bread in the passage with the double odor of the dining room and kitchen .
My good fellow , you must have lost your senses to think it possible I could act with such cold-blooded policy. ” And this time it must be confessed that , contrary to the usual state of affairs in discussions between the young men , the effective arguments were all on Albert ’ s side .
Well , at twenty-nine I saw Valentine ; for two years I have loved her , for two years I have seen written in her heart , as in a book , all the virtues of a daughter and wife .
D ’ Artagnan vigorously seized his prisoner ’ s hand , saying : “ Eh !
“ Listen , then , Lord Winter .
Morrel rose and advanced to the door ; but his strength failed him and he sank into a chair .
M. Andrea at his departure inherited all the papers which proved that he had indeed the honor of being the son of the Marquis Bartolomeo and the Marchioness Oliva Corsinari .
This supposition appeared to her most reasonable .
Now , I can not for one instant believe you so devoid of gallantry as to refuse a lady your escort when she even condescends to ask you for it. ” There was nothing else left for Franz to do but to take up his hat , open the door of the box , and offer the countess his arm .
Is he much changed ? ” “ He has become an abbé , that is all. ” “ You alarm me ; his profession must have made him renounce any great undertakings. ” “ On the contrary , ” said Athos , smiling , “ he has never been so much a musketeer as since he became an abbé , and you will find him a veritable soldier. ” “ Could you engage to bring him to me to-morrow morning at ten o ’ clock , on the Pont du Louvre ? ” “ Oh , oh ! ” exclaimed Athos , smiling , “ you have a duel in prospect. ” “ Yes , count , and a splendid duel , too ; a duel in which I hope you will take your part. ” “ Where are we to go , my lord ? ” “ To Her Majesty the Queen of England , who has desired me to present you to her. ” “ This is an enigma , ” said Athos , “ but it matters not ; since you know the solution of it I ask no further .
“ I will profit by the advice. ” “ And now , ” added the queen , her voice broken by her emotion , “ have you any other question to ask me ? ” “ Nothing , ” —the cardinal spoke in his most conciliatory manner— “ except to beg of you to forgive my unworthy suspicions .
Let no trace of emotion be visible on your countenance , bear your grief as the cloud bears within it ruin and death—a fatal secret , known only when the storm bursts .
He took them with him , without encouraging them or promising them anything , and without concealing from them that their luck , and even his own , depended upon the cast of the dice .
“ Do not give yourself the trouble , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with his right foot forward , his beaver in his hand , a smile on his face , “ we have followed your eminence step by step and here we are. ” “ Yes—here we are , ” said Porthos .
“ Look here , ” said the Englishman .
This mysterious shade , spread over his whole person , rendered still more interesting the man whose eyes or mouth , even in the most complete intoxication , had never revealed anything , however skillfully questions had been put to him .
I never was in a law-court ; I am told it is so very amusing ! ” “ Amusing , certainly , ” replied the young man , “ inasmuch as , instead of shedding tears as at the fictitious tale of woe produced at a theatre , you behold in a law-court a case of real and genuine distress—a drama of life .
The cart must be tastefully ornamented ; and if you and I dress ourselves as Neapolitan reapers , we may get up a striking tableau , after the manner of that splendid picture by Léopold Robert .
In one hand she held her handkerchief , with which she appeared to be wiping her face , and in the other a bottle of English smelling-salts .
Learn to know the heart of men , and henceforth make yourself less easily the instrument of their unjust vengeance. ” Milady , with a rapid gesture , opened her robe , tore the cambric that covered her bosom , and red with feigned anger and simulated shame , showed the young man the ineffaceable impression which dishonored that beautiful shoulder .
He had scarcely advanced three leagues out of Rome when daylight began to disappear .
This last apartment was a sort of dark room , littered with papers .
“ All ’ s well , ” he cried , as he entered ; “ I have hired a cedar wherry , as light as a canoe , as easy on the wing as any swallow .
The chancellor entered , half smiling , half blushing .
The world is not wanting in attractions .
Tomorrow , then ! ” he added , turning towards Bertuccio .
The pistols were loaded ; he stretched forth his hand , took one up , and murmured his daughter ’ s name .
Chapter 55 .
Four or five men are placed in ambuscade in the first room .
“ S ’ blood ! ” cried he to D ’ Artagnan , “ do not kill him , young man , I beg of you .
“ You are there , sir ? ” he said , respectfully .
“ Ah , ha , ” cried Danglars , “ this fellow is more like an ogre than anything else ; however , I am rather too old and tough to be very good eating ! ” We see that Danglars was collected enough to jest ; at the same time , as though to disprove the ogreish propensities , the man took some black bread , cheese , and onions from his wallet , which he began devouring voraciously .
Escape had never once occurred to him .
Gaetano was not mistaken .
“ How very singular , ” cried Monte Cristo with well-feigned astonishment .
I will not allow the prefect of police to interfere with my private affairs .
“ I was a witness of the last hours of Charles I .
This door communicated with a subterranean passage , leading under the street to a grotto in the garden of a house about a hundred yards from that of the future Protector .
Well , she is a monster , who , at twenty-five years of age , has been guilty of as many crimes as you could read of in a year in the archives of our tribunals .
It is he who in an encounter with your Eminence ’ s Guards decided the victory in favor of the king ’ s Musketeers ; it is he who gave three desperate wounds to De Wardes , your emissary , and who caused the affair of the diamond studs to fail ; it is he who , knowing it was I who had Madame Bonacieux carried off , has sworn my death. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said the cardinal , “ I know of whom you speak. ” “ I mean that miserable D ’ Artagnan. ” “ He is a bold fellow , ” said the cardinal .
You have your servant ’ s clothes on—you therefore keep a servant ; I have none , and am obliged to prepare my own meals .
He opened the case and offered them to the queen with deep and silent anguish .
[ 23 ] Germain Pillon was a famous French sculptor ( 1535-1598 ) .
De Guiche might have been about eighteen years of age , but he was scarcely taller than Raoul , who was only fifteen .
let us not lose a moment. ” The four friends resumed their own clothes , girded on their swords , ordered Mousqueton and Blaisois to pay the bill and to arrange everything for immediate departure , and wrapped in their large cloaks left in search of their game .
She belonged body and soul to her handsome soldier .
The duke walked so fast that D ’ Artagnan had some trouble in keeping up with him .
“ What art thou , then ?
“ Golden dreams ! ” cried Aramis .
Rise and answer. ” Peppino glanced anxiously at Franz .
At any rate , tell me : there ’ s more chance of fighting in Paris , is there not ? ” “ In that respect , my dear friend , it ’ s delightful .
“ Down with the officer !
Everything was as we have said , a question of arithmetic to Cocles , and during twenty years he had always seen all payments made with such exactitude , that it seemed as impossible to him that the house should stop payment , as it would to a miller that the river that had so long turned his mill should cease to flow .
Ah !
“ I asked to be excused in case I should not be able to discharge my debt to all three ; for Monsieur Athos has the right to kill me first , which must much diminish the face-value of your bill , Monsieur Porthos , and render yours almost null , Monsieur Aramis .
The Dappled Grays VOLUME THREE Chapter 48 .
You know that the famous waistcoat was found in his house , containing the letter which stopped the signature of the marriage-contract .
“ I am not an abbé , I am not mad ; perhaps I shall be , but at present , unfortunately , I am not .
He must be made to speak , in order that he might be spoken to—for Milady very well knew that her greatest seduction was in her voice , which so skillfully ran over the whole gamut of tones from human speech to language celestial .
The host , his mind at ease about his bill , placed pen , ink and paper upon the table .
Each time he read it he renewed his vow to make her happy .
Oh , yes , it is she ! ” “ A voice of strange sweetness ? ” “ How do you know it ? ” The executioner raised himself on his elbow and gazed with a frightened air at the monk , who became livid .
Chapter XIX .
“ Madame , ” said Athos , passing his arm under that of D ’ Artagnan , “ we abandon to your pious care the body of that unfortunate woman .
for a hundred pistoles I have discovered a secret for which Richelieu would have paid twenty thousand crowns ; without reckoning the value of that diamond ” —he cast a complacent look at the ring , which he had kept , instead of restoring to D ’ Artagnan— “ which is worth , at least , ten thousand francs. ” He returned to his room , and after depositing the ring in a casket filled with brilliants of every sort , for the cardinal was a connoisseur in precious stones , he called to Bernouin to undress him , regardless of the noises of gun-fire that , though it was now near midnight , continued to resound through Paris .
Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed editions , all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included .
“ Oh , do not deny it !
He took back the ring , but put it in his pocket and not on his finger .
“ You are about my height , Pierre , ” said he .
As for you , viscount , ” continued Monte Cristo to Morcerf , “ you are more fortunate than the government , for your arms are really beautiful , and speak to the imagination .
“ You will not sign that order , my Lord ! ” said Felton , making a step toward the duke .
One of these ladies , the fair one , uttered those terrible shrieks which resounded through the house , while the other , rushing to the bell-rope , rang with all her strength .
“ Ah !
D ’ Artagnan was not so dull as not to perceive that he was one too many ; but he was not sufficiently broken into the fashions of the gay world to know how to extricate himself gallantly from a false position , like that of a man who begins to mingle with people he is scarcely acquainted with and in a conversation that does not concern him .
Here is the key of the door , so that you can go in and out as you please ; you will bring the priest with you , and will oblige me by introducing him into my child ’ s room. ” 50101m “ Do you wish to see him ? ” “ I only wish to be alone .
I will tell him of the count , and we shall soon know who he is. ” “ Take care , ” returned Albert ; “ no one has been able to accomplish that. ” “ Oh , we have three millions for our police ; it is true they are almost always spent beforehand , but , no matter , we shall still have fifty thousand francs to spend for this purpose. ” “ And when you know , will you tell me ? ” “ I promise you .
know you again ?
It is a bad sign ; a quiet conscience does not occasion such paleness in the cheeks , and such fever in the hands of a man. ” “ But , your excellency , ” replied Bertuccio hesitatingly , “ did not the Abbé Busoni , who heard my confession in the prison at Nîmes , tell you that I had a heavy burden upon my conscience ? ” “ Yes ; but as he said you would make an excellent steward , I concluded you had stolen—that was all. ” “ Oh , your excellency ! ” returned Bertuccio in deep contempt .
Oh , Morrel , pray love him for all his goodness to us ! ” Morrel swore to love him with all his soul ; and at that moment he could safely promise to do so , for he felt as though it were not enough to love him merely as a friend or even as a father , he worshiped him as a god .
I think you wished to do so of your own accord ? ” “ You are right , madame , ” said the king , “ and I am ready to retire to my room when you have kissed me .
Felton would see all ; perhaps he would say nothing , but he would see .
to the boat ! ” “ But Porthos , I do not see him. ” “ Porthos is coming—he swims like Leviathan. ” In fact , Porthos did not appear ; for a scene , half tragedy and half comedy , had been performed by him with Mousqueton and Blaisois , who , frightened by the noise of the sea , by the whistling of the wind , by the sight of that dark water yawning like a gulf beneath them , shrank back instead of going forward .
In a moment he was on the ground .
If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” associated with or appearing on the work , you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
Good-evening , M. de Morcerf. ” The countenance of this man , who possessed such extraordinary control over his feelings , expressed the most perfect cordiality .
In a court of justice that is called an alibi. ” D ’ Artagnan found his advice prudent .
The novice sat down .
Oubliettes are employed as a means of kingly vengeance , and a low-born fellow such as he is would not have recourse to them .
“ And now , once more , adieu , ” said Morrel .
“ Where am I ? ” exclaimed she ; “ and to whom am I indebted for so happy a termination to my late dreadful alarm ? ” “ Madame , ” answered the count , “ you are under the roof of one who esteems himself most fortunate in having been able to save you from a further continuance of your sufferings. ” “ My wretched curiosity has brought all this about , ” pursued the lady .
By my faith , it is very fortunate that the letter was not in it. ” “ They ’ ll kill poor Porthos when he comes up , ” said Aramis .
Ah , _pardieu_ , Tréville !
“ He knows that we overheard his conversation yesterday and he wants to get us away from Paris. ” “ Do you hesitate ? ” asked Mazarin .
The lackeys had been ordered to saddle eight horses and to wait , keeping together and without dismounting , at the corner of a street about twenty steps from the house where the king was lodged .
Do you understand ?
Then that explains everything that is extraordinary , ” said Andrea .
Your hand , Athos ! ” And without waiting for the answer of the newcomer to this proof of affection , M. de Tréville seized his right hand and pressed it with all his might , without perceiving that Athos , whatever might be his self-command , allowed a slight murmur of pain to escape him , and if possible , grew paler than he was before .
Then he took away his mother ’ s portrait , with its oaken frame , leaving the gilt frame from which he took it black and empty .
They asked him if some time ago he had not received in his house two gentlemen who were pursued by dragoons ; without answering he went out and brought in the blade of a rapier .
I thought they might be useful , so I took them. ” Meantime Porthos had reloaded his pistols .
Oliver Cromwell considered it more expedient to declare himself to a mind as intelligent as Mazarin ’ s than to a queen admirable for firmness , without doubt , but too much guided by vain prejudices of birth and of divine right .
“ And now , my dear girl , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you know that it is not good for any of us to be here .
The rabbit died .
The last Count of Spada , moreover , made me his heir , bequeathing to me this symbolic breviary , he bequeathed to me all it contained ; no , no , make your mind satisfied on that point .
A very imposing escort awaited them without the gates .
A captain is nothing but a father of a family , charged with even a greater responsibility than the father of an ordinary family .
then , are your names , gentlemen ? ” “ The Comte de la Fere and the Chevalier d ’ Herblay , ” said Aramis .
“ You want Valentine , do you not ?
“ Your Milady , ” said he , “ appears to be an infamous creature , but not the less you have done wrong to deceive her .
You said prince , did you not ?
The two grooms held the horses , that they might take a little rest without being unsaddled , and Grimaud was posted as sentinel .
Madame , you are deceived , ” said Porthos ; “ she is simply a duchess. ” “ And that running footman who waited at the door , and that carriage with a coachman in grand livery who sat waiting on his seat ? ” Porthos had seen neither the footman nor the carriage , but with the eye of a jealous woman , Mme .
We will describe the thing to him as a consequence of the affair of yesterday , and the two will pass off together. ” M. de Tréville , accompanied by the four young fellows , directed his course toward the Louvre ; but to the great astonishment of the captain of the Musketeers , he was informed that the king had gone stag hunting in the forest of St. Germain .
Should the king prove a tyrant , for power begets tyranny , serve , love , respect royalty , that Divine right , that celestial spark which makes this dust still powerful and holy , so that we—gentlemen , nevertheless , of rank and condition—are as nothing in comparison with the cold corpse there extended. ” “ I shall adore God , sir , ” said Raoul , “ respect royalty and ever serve the king .
These individuals are under arrest .
Bonacieux , rising all in a tremble , supported herself upon her chair to avoid falling .
The old man ’ s interrogative eye said , “ Which ? ” “ I will go , ” continued Maximilian , “ I will seek M. Franz d ’ Épinay—I am happy to be able to mention this in Mademoiselle de Villefort ’ s absence—and will conduct myself toward him so as to compel him to challenge me. ” Noirtier ’ s look continued to interrogate .
She had not long to wait ; directly afterwards the door was opened wide enough to admit her , and when she had passed through , it was again shut .
“ And the drawers ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Those at the side ? ” “ No. ” “ The middle one ? ” “ Yes. ” Valentine opened it and drew out a bundle of papers .
“ Now , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you wouldn ’ t be sorry to understand the plot , would you , Porthos ? ” “ Well , no , not very. ” “ Well , then , we shall go down into the court. ” “ Yes. ” “ We shall take the place of those two fellows. ” “ Well ? ” “ We will walk back and forth. ” “ That ’ s a good idea , for it isn ’ t warm. ” “ In a moment the valet-de-chambre will call the guard , as he did yesterday and the day before. ” “ And we shall answer ? ” “ No , on the contrary , we shall not answer. ” “ As you please ; I don ’ t insist on answering. ” “ We will not answer , then ; we will simply settle our hats on our heads and we will escort his eminence. ” “ Where shall we escort him ? ” “ Where he is going—to visit Athos .
A priest can understand a father ’ s grief. ” And M. de Villefort , giving the key to d ’ Avrigny , again bade farewell to the strange doctor , and retired to his study , where he began to work .
You must stop at the little village of Eccuis , in which there is but one tavern—the Shield of France .
The two travelers proceeded to the Rue Saint Dominique and stopped at the door of a magnificent hotel , surmounted with the arms of De Luynes .
I shall do my duty as conscientiously as I can , and fulfil my promise to the dying man .
Gentlemen ! ” cried the surrounding group .
Porthos brought up the rear , and before soldiers , officers , or colonel had time to recover their surprise all four were in the street .
Athos smiled ; the smile was melancholy .
“ Forward ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , driven to extremities , biting his moustache ; and then he charged with his twenty men and dispersed them in fear .
Mine , also , are from him ! ” “ Indeed , sir , I recognize you ; you are Captain Mordaunt. ” Mordaunt was startled .
Ah !
Mercédès read : “ Albert , —While showing you that I have discovered your plans , I hope also to convince you of my delicacy .
Chapter 59 .
What , then , would be the use of all I have suffered ?
The Count of Monte Cristo remained a quarter of an hour with them , conversing on all subjects with the greatest ease .
“ Yes , ” returned D ’ Artagnan , who had overheard him , “ to-night , gentlemen , we rescue the king. ” “ D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , “ this is no joke , I trust ?
“ I want to know if you were left alone , and nobody interrupted you. ” “ Why , I think there were not many intruders .
Meanwhile Madame Danglars , veiled and uneasy , awaited the return of Debray in the little green room , seated between two baskets of flowers , which she had that morning sent , and which , it must be confessed , Debray had himself arranged and watered with so much care that his absence was half excused in the eyes of the poor woman .
The day on which D ’ Artagnan presented himself the assemblage was imposing , particularly for a provincial just arriving from his province .
Is not a day divided into twenty-four hours , each hour into sixty minutes , and every minute sub-divided into sixty seconds ?
The young officer stood upright before her , awaiting her words as if to devour them .
Villefort fully understood his father ’ s meaning , and answered by a slight shrug of his shoulders .
Sit down , and I will read it again. ” Albert resumed his seat , and Beauchamp read , with more attention than at first , the lines denounced by his friend .
“ Here is Monsieur Comminges , ” said D ’ Artagnan , returning to the cardinal .
“ You are young , ” replied Athos ; “ and your bitter recollections have time to change themselves into sweet remembrances. ” EPILOGUE La Rochelle , deprived of the assistance of the English fleet and of the diversion promised by Buckingham , surrendered after a siege of a year .
“ You are insupportable ! ” cried the duke ; “ I shall beat you. ” Grimaud bowed .
He filled two glasses , and by a sign invited D ’ Artagnan to drink .
At the same instant the woman inside drew a second handkerchief from her pocket , and exchanged it for that which had just been shown to her .
Milady was not a woman to misunderstand the meaning of this hesitation .
those imbeciles of magicians can only imagine things to torment honest people. ” “ And what did you reply to his most illustrious eminence ? ” “ That if the astrologer in question made almanacs I would advise him not to buy one. ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because before you could escape you would have to be turned into a bird. ” “ Unfortunately , that is true .
It was the governor who returned , followed by the doctor and other attendants .
“ Wait , ” said Athos .
He had by degrees assumed such authority over his companions that he was almost like a commander on board ; and as his orders were always clear , distinct , and easy of execution , his comrades obeyed him with celerity and pleasure .
All we have hitherto done in the matter has been child ’ s play .
“ Nonsense , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ you would do as much , Mr .
A mattress was laid upon the deck for him .
Just ask yourself , my good fellow , whether there are not many persons of our acquaintance who assume the names of lands and properties they never in their lives were masters of ? ” “ But , ” said Franz , “ the Corsican bandits that were among the crew of his vessel ? ” “ Why , really the thing seems to me simple enough .
I believe he ’ s swimming toward us .
Then , having renewed his injunction not to give Valentine anything , he went down again to Noirtier , shut the doors carefully , and after convincing himself that no one was listening : “ Do you , ” said he , “ know anything of this young lady ’ s illness ? ” “ Yes , ” said the old man .
“ I could interpret one of your looks. ” “ Then you would employ for me your arm which has already acquired so much renown ? ” “ Instantly ! ” “ But on my part , ” said Milady , “ how should I repay such a service ?
so you are here ! ” cried the officer , in the tone of ill-humor habitual to him ; “ what the devil are you doing here ? ” “ I wish to know—can you tell me , pray—is anything fresh occurring in this part of the town ? ” “ What do you mean ?
The general remembered that I had formerly been a naval officer and he gave me the command of this expedition .
No objection was raised , but they pointed out the asylum , which was situated at the upper end of the Rue d ’ Enfer , and after having taken the precaution of cutting the linen in two pieces , so that one of the two letters which marked it was on the piece wrapped around the child , while the other remained in my possession , I rang the bell , and fled with all speed .
Eight o ’ clock found Franz up and dressed , while Albert , who had not the same motives for early rising , was still soundly asleep .
He awoke .
Look closely ! ” The doctor then slowly poured some drops of the lemonade from the decanter into the cup , and in an instant a light cloudy sediment began to form at the bottom of the cup ; this sediment first took a blue shade , then from the color of sapphire it passed to that of opal , and from opal to emerald .
It was Morrel alone who remembered with alarm , that if he had to repay on the 15th the 50,000 francs of M. de Boville , and on the 30th the 32,500 francs of bills , for which , as well as the debt due to the inspector of prisons , he had time granted , he must be a ruined man .
Leave me a small supply of biscuit , a gun , powder , and balls , to kill the kids or defend myself at need , and a pickaxe , that I may build a shelter if you delay in coming back for me. ” “ But you ’ ll die of hunger , ” said the patron .
“ The three last , ” returned he , with a negligence evidently unaffected , for he could not imagine with what intention the question was put .
“ Have you it ? ” asked Raoul “ Yes—that is , I had it , ” repined the Gascon , making believe to find it .
She fainted .
_A propos_ , inform Bazin. ” “ Will Bazin go with us ? ” asked Aramis .
“ I have heard Monsieur d ’ Artagnan spoken of as a very brave young man , ” said the citizen ; “ and this reputation which he justly enjoys had decided me to confide a secret to him. ” “ Speak , monsieur , speak , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who instinctively scented something advantageous .
After continuing some time in profound meditation , the young man suddenly exclaimed , “ I have found what you were in search of ! ” Faria started : “ Have you , indeed ? ” cried he , raising his head with quick anxiety ; “ pray , let me know what it is you have discovered ? ” “ The corridor through which you have bored your way from the cell you occupy here , extends in the same direction as the outer gallery , does it not ? ” 0207m “ It does. ” “ And is not above fifteen feet from it ? ” “ About that. ” “ Well , then , I will tell you what we must do .
How often did he muse over it and pronounce the name of a dear friend—a friend lost to him forever ; and on his death-bed , when the near approach of eternity seemed to have illumined his mind with supernatural light , this thought , which had until then been but a doubt , became a conviction , and his last words were , ‘ Maximilian , it was Edmond Dantès ! ’ ” At these words the count ’ s paleness , which had for some time been increasing , became alarming ; he could not speak ; he looked at his watch like a man who has forgotten the hour , said a few hurried words to Madame Herbault , and pressing the hands of Emmanuel and Maximilian , — “ Madame , ” said he , “ I trust you will allow me to visit you occasionally ; I value your friendship , and feel grateful to you for your welcome , for this is the first time for many years that I have thus yielded to my feelings ; ” and he hastily quitted the apartment .
“ I can do much for you , my friend , ” replied the count .
“ Monsieur de Busigny , ” said Athos , “ will you be so kind as to set your watch with mine , or permit me to regulate mine by yours ? ” “ Which you please , monsieur ! ” said the light-horseman , drawing from his fob a very handsome watch , studded with diamonds ; “ half past seven. ” “ Thirty-five minutes after seven , ” said Athos , “ by which you perceive I am five minutes faster than you. ” And bowing to all the astonished persons present , the young men took the road to the bastion St. Gervais , followed by Grimaud , who carried the basket , ignorant of where he was going but in the passive obedience which Athos had taught him not even thinking of asking .
He did not then think of the Carnival , for in spite of his condescension and touching kindness , one can not incline one ’ s self without awe before the venerable and noble old man called Gregory XVI .
I wish to tell him to make my child happy ; I wish to read in his eyes whether he intends to obey me ; —in fact , I will know him—I will ! ” continued the old lady , with a fearful expression , “ that I may rise from the depths of my grave to find him , if he should not fulfil his duty ! ” “ Madame , ” said Villefort , “ you must lay aside these exalted ideas , which almost assume the appearance of madness .
Coquenard ’ s chamber ; they were heartrending .
The appointed hour was about to strike .
A duel was the pretext for my wound .
He took them up , just as he formerly used to take up the stones from the road , and threw them out of the house. ” “ Neat , ” remarked D ’ Artagnan .
“ Oh , oh ! ” he at length muttered , “ do you see ? ” “ What ?
1.F.2 .
But , as we have said , Bazin had not , by his fortunate return , removed more than a part of the uneasiness which weighed upon the four friends .
I see you now .
He preferred to use the sitting-room upstairs , which was more library than parlor , and was furnished with theological books and parchments , in which he delighted to bury himself for months at a time , according to his valet de chambre .
Hark ye , my friend , I have disobeyed my first order , but I will not disobey the second ; and if you move , I will blow your brains out. ” And he levelled his carbine at Dantès , who felt the muzzle against his temple .
“ Like women , not like queens. ” “ Egad !
“ You sent for me ? ” he said to the prisoner .
You look at me and you are going to laugh at me. ” “ No , on the contrary , I am not inclined to laugh , ” said Athos , suppressing a sigh .
“ Madame de Villefort is ill. ” 50087m “ But Mademoiselle de Villefort—— ” stammered the nurse .
Boisgoli , tell Noirmont that I have two guests .
She continued , then , as if she had not heard his exclamation , or as if she thought the moment was not yet come to reply to it .
then tell me who you are , and get along with you upon your journey , ” replied the duchess , with the gayety which made her so charming , “ for I am sufficiently in bad odor already , without compromising myself still more. ” “ Who I am , madame ?
“ Now the scent bag of white satin , on which her cipher is embroidered in pearls. ” Patrick again obeyed .
Both got into Albert ’ s _coupé_ ; and , as the young man had no reason to conceal where he was going , he called aloud , “ To the Opera. ” In his impatience he arrived before the beginning of the performance .
No , no—look , look ! ” 20172m The recommendation was needless .
Do not cast yourself against such a rock ; he would break you like glass. ” “ That will not prevent me , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ if ever I find him. ” “ In the meantime , ” said Tréville , “ seek him not—if I have a right to advise you. ” All at once the captain stopped , as if struck by a sudden suspicion .
free ! ” Chapter XXIV .
He meditates .
Franz resolved to wait for Albert as late as possible .
“ Sir , ” said she , “ I perfectly understand my grandfather ’ s meaning at all times. ” “ That is quite true , ” said Barrois ; “ and that is what I told the gentleman as we walked along. ” “ Permit me , ” said the notary , turning first to Villefort and then to Valentine— “ permit me to state that the case in question is just one of those in which a public officer like myself can not proceed to act without thereby incurring a dangerous responsibility .
But I also kept my word with him , and I neither ate nor drank .
Charles wiped his face and said with a sad smile : “ Poor wretch , for half a crown he would do as much to his own father. ” The king was not mistaken .
D ’ Artagnan therefore followed Mme .
If you plunge a dagger into your flesh , if you insinuate a bullet into your brain , which the least shock disorders , —then certainly , you will suffer pain , and you will repent quitting a life for a repose you have bought at so dear a price. ” “ Yes ; I know that there is a secret of luxury and pain in death , as well as in life ; the only thing is to understand it. ” “ You have spoken truly , Maximilian ; according to the care we bestow upon it , death is either a friend who rocks us gently as a nurse , or an enemy who violently drags the soul from the body .
With steady gaze he awaited confidently the moment for administering the restorative .
So that now , thanks be to God , we do not want , as Monsieur can testify , for partridges , rabbits , carp or eels—all light , wholesome food , suitable for the sick. ” “ But the wine , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ who furnishes the wine ?
The servant announced M. Albert de Morcerf .
“ What is it ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , who did not at all comprehend the hilarity of his friend .
The next day the prisoner ’ s room was full of pictures and mottoes .
“ And me , too ! ” said Porthos .
The king was riding in front , surrounded by troopers , and when he saw Athos and Aramis a glow of pleasure lighted his pale cheeks .
Albert followed him with the count .
Buckingham also was pursuing a private vengeance .
Why buy what one can take ? ” “ Take ! ” said Blaisois ; “ covet the goods of your neighbor ?
I will wear it , I swear to you , as a grateful man should do. ” “ ’ Tis well ; arise , vicomte , embrace me. ” Raoul arose and threw himself with emotion into the count ’ s arms .
He would have been discovered by the beating of his heart , if by any mischance the jailers had entered at that moment .
An old proverb says , “ Like master , like man. ” Let us pass , then , from the valet of Athos to the valet of Porthos , from Grimaud to Mousqueton .
“ The mother was a wretch , who struck at us all and at those dear to us. ” “ Yes , but the son has done us no harm. ” Grimaud , who had risen to watch the effect of the shot , fell back hopeless , wringing his hands .
“ Why , you told me he was a young man ?
In fact , the blow was direct and severe .
He ordered him to go and saddle two horses in M. de Tréville ’ s stables—one for himself , D ’ Artagnan , and one for Planchet—and bring them to Athos ’ s place .
And who is the cause of all this annoyance ? ” “ My father , as I told you. ” “ M .
It was situated in a very private spot .
Then I renewed the search .
The man , somewhat crest-fallen by the rebuke he had received , repeated what the concierge had said .
Do you know what gave him strength ?
and you , my lord ? ” “ If I wish to leave ? ” “ That would be much more difficult. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Your eminence might be recognized. ” “ Even under this disguise ? ” asked Mazarin , raising a cloak which covered an arm-chair , upon which lay a complete dress for an officer , of pearl-gray and red , entirely embroidered with silver .
But then you understand , Madame Coquenard , a mule with feathers and bells. ” “ Be satisfied , ” said the procurator ’ s wife .
meant .
Franz had already made seven or eight similar excursions to the Colosseum , while his less favored companion trod for the first time in his life the classic ground forming the monument of Flavius Vespasian ; and , to his credit be it spoken , his mind , even amid the glib loquacity of the guides , was duly and deeply touched with awe and enthusiastic admiration of all he saw ; and certainly no adequate notion of these stupendous ruins can be formed save by such as have visited them , and more especially by moonlight , at which time the vast proportions of the building appear twice as large when viewed by the mysterious beams of a southern moonlit sky , whose rays are sufficiently clear and vivid to light the horizon with a glow equal to the soft twilight of a western clime .
The only thing that astonishes me is that he did not strike me dead at once .
Give me the despatch , Raoul. ” The young man hesitated and looked at Athos as if seeking to read in his eyes a rule of conduct .
Come , gentlemen , ” addressing the troop , “ let us return. ” “ Stop , ” exclaimed Villequier , “ so Mazarin was here !
As to what is said , everybody is discontented , everybody complains , but ‘ everybody ’ means ‘ nobody. ’ ” “ Explain yourself , my good friend , ” said the coadjutor .
But do not despair ; you have life before you , my dear Albert , for you are yet scarcely twenty-two years old ; and as a pure heart like yours wants a spotless name , take my father ’ s—it was Herrera .
No , no , my boy ; I prefer remaining honorably in the capital. ” Andrea scowled .
Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States .
At the door they found the carriage .
Ah , those gentlemen never choose the worst morsels ; like Mère Simon ’ s son , who has not chosen the worst strawberries .
“ He is and he is not , ” replied Athos ; “ that is to say , he is dismissed by one-half of France , but by intrigues and promises he makes the other half sustain him ; you will perceive that this may last a long time. ” “ However , sir , ” said the stranger , “ he has neither fled nor is in prison ? ” “ No , sir , not at this moment at least. ” “ Sirs , accept my thanks for your politeness , ” said the young man , retreating .
I tendered my resignation , for when you have gained your epaulets on the battle-field , you do not know how to manœuvre on the slippery grounds of the salons .
30 .
I will run , then , till my legs no longer serve , till my heart bursts in my bosom but I will arrive before they do. ” Mordaunt proceeded at a rapid pace to the nearest cavalry barracks , about a quarter of a league distant .
“ Yes , you !
“ I have just discovered how a gardener may get rid of the dormice that eat his peaches. ” Chapter 62 .
D ’ Artagnan even fancied he could recognize amid this strange disorder , fragments of garments , and some bloody spots staining the cloth and the curtains .
It was evident that the abbé limited himself to objects of strict necessity .
“ He is gone !
Beauty has always been and always will be all-powerful .
This voice was heard by the two friends , who set off , full gallop .
“ Come , ” he said to himself , “ let me try if he will be more tractable than the other ; ” and he tapped gently at the door .
Noirtier wishes to see you tonight , he said , in an undertone .
“ And now , ” said D ’ Artagnan to Athos , “ entertain no further doubts about me ; I undertake all that concerns the king. ” Chapter LXIV .
40298m “ Yes , indeed , sir , ” continued Eugénie , still quite calm ; “ you are astonished , I see ; for since this little affair began , I have not manifested the slightest opposition , and yet I am always sure , when the opportunity arrives , to oppose a determined and absolute will to people who have not consulted me , and things which displease me .
“ I thought I saw , ” said one of the servants , “ horsemen dressed in yellow , creeping along the bed of the stream .
The peasants were in great commotion .
All Villefort ’ s influence barely enabled him to stifle the secret Dantès had so nearly divulged .
“ Ah , ” said Cavalcanti to himself , “ if I only had that britzka , those two good post-horses , and above all the passport that carries them on ! ” And he sighed deeply .
The fowl must have been sought for a long time on the perch , to which it had retired to die of old age .
Now , on such a day I can neither eat flesh nor see it eaten .
“ You are free , my brothers !
I am suffering—I can not see .
“ Look , look , doctor , ” said Villefort , “ he is quite coming round again ; I really do not think , after all , it is anything of consequence. ” M. d ’ Avrigny answered by a melancholy smile .
He , however , darted not the less quickly toward Milady , yielding to that magnetic attraction which the loadstone exercises over iron .
They searched ; they questioned .
Moreover , from being so long in twilight or darkness , his eyes had acquired the faculty of distinguishing objects in the night , common to the hyena and the wolf .
Haydée , whose soul seemed centred in the business of the stage , like all unsophisticated natures , delighted in whatever addressed itself to the eye or ear .
Valentine therefore reached her hand towards the glass , but as soon as her trembling arm left the bed the apparition advanced more quickly towards her , and approached the young girl so closely that she fancied she heard his breath , and felt the pressure of his hand .
Adieu , madame .
I speak as I can ; I restrain myself .
“ And you will add to them this knife , ” said the duke , pressing the hand of Laporte .
Some insisted she was making for Corsica , others the Island of Elba ; bets were offered to any amount that she was bound for Spain ; while Africa was positively reported by many persons as her intended course ; but no one thought of Monte Cristo .
“ Ah , yes , it is true , ” murmured d ’ Avrigny .
“ Then I believe you .
Idiot that I am , though I have been trying to find it out for five years , I never found it out. ” “ But I do not say it was the cause of your imprisonment .
On reaching the capital Athos and Aramis found it in arms .
She took the risk upon herself .
“ And I also , ” said Aramis .
“ She is going to leave her house , ” said the steward .
The king took advantage of this favorable moment to tell her that he had the intention of shortly giving a fête .
“ Your life is devoted from this moment , and does not belong to you .
He seated himself on the edge of that terrible bed , and fell into melancholy and gloomy reverie .
Milady ’ s robe was not the less stained with blood in a second .
He opened the window ; a bright yellow streak crossed the sky , and seemed to divide in half the poplars , which stood out in black relief on the horizon .
Monsieur , ” he continued , addressing Raoul , “ if you are not too tired , follow me. ” “ To the end of the world , my lord ! ” cried Raoul , feeling an unknown enthusiasm for that young general , who seemed to him so worthy of his renown .
There were large bottles filled with serpents , ticketed according to their species ; dried lizards shone like emeralds set in great squares of black wood , and bunches of wild odoriferous herbs , doubtless possessed of virtues unknown to common men , were fastened to the ceiling and hung down in the corners of the apartment .
Chapter LVI .
Eh , monsieur , eh ! ” “ Friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ a half-pistole for that paper ! ” “ My faith , monsieur , with great pleasure !
“ ‘ Close the door , ’ said La Carconte ; ‘ I do not like open doors when it thunders. ’ “ ‘ Particularly when there is money in the house , eh ? ’ answered Caderousse , double-locking the door .
The king was dull and appeared ill , which detracted a little from his usual lofty bearing .
But Athos was a man of inflexible determination ; he firmly adhered to a purpose once formed , when it seemed to him to spring from conscience and to be prompted by a sense of duty .
“ Enter , gentlemen , and be kind enough to wait for me ; I shall not be more than half an hour. ” And while the three Musketeers entered the ground floor room , the cardinal , without asking further information , ascended the staircase like a man who has no need of having his road pointed out to him .
“ The baron knows , as well as myself , that Milady de Winter is a very guilty woman , and it is treating her very favorably to commute her punishment to transportation. ” The duke put his pen to the paper .
It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .
Strange !
A long pause ensued , which lasted until all the flowers were removed .
The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States .
Here are some lozenges which I have made up on purpose ; they are compounded doubly strong. ” Monte Cristo opened the tortoise-shell box , which the lady presented to him , and inhaled the odor of the lozenges with the air of an amateur who thoroughly appreciated their composition .
The carriage stopped at the left side of the portico , two men presented themselves at the carriage-window ; the one was Ali , who , smiling with an expression of the most sincere joy , seemed amply repaid by a mere look from Monte Cristo .
Athos gave Raoul some of the holy water .
“ Sell ! ” cried Mousqueton , about whom there was a remnant of his ancient marauding character left .
The _Pharaon_ is entering the harbor ! ” Morrel fell back in his chair , his strength was failing him ; his understanding weakened by such events , refused to comprehend such incredible , unheard-of , fabulous facts .
“ Indeed ? ” said Athos .
Believe me , and take comfort , this is better for me than tons of gold and cases of diamonds , even were they not as problematical as the clouds we see in the morning floating over the sea , which we take for _terra firma_ , and which evaporate and vanish as we draw near to them .
Then the pen of the clerk ceased to move over the paper ; he raised his head , and appearing to be perfectly sure of privacy : “ Ah , ha , ” he said , “ here you are , Peppino ! ” “ Yes , ” was the laconic reply .
“ From the count , ” said Bertuccio .
To quote some Latin verses I have forgotten , or rather , never knew well , ‘ the thunderbolt never falls on the valleys , ’ and I am a valley , dear Rochefort , —one of the lowliest of the low. ” “ Then Mazarin is still Mazarin ? ” “ The same as ever , my friend ; it is said that he is married to the queen. ” “ Married ? ” “ If not her husband , he is unquestionably her lover. ” “ You surprise me .
One evening I went , according to custom , to a house which I frequented with much pleasure : when one is young , what can be expected ? —one is weak .
“ I will not , ” continued he , after a moment ’ s silence , “ conceal from you , that while your probity and exactitude up to this moment are universally acknowledged , yet the report is current in Marseilles that you are not able to meet your liabilities. ” At this almost brutal speech Morrel turned deathly pale .
“ By the orders of the deputy procureur ? ” “ I believe so. ” The conviction that they came from M. de Villefort relieved all Dantès ’ apprehensions ; he advanced calmly , and placed himself in the centre of the escort .
Rely on me. ” D ’ Artagnan knew that , although a Gascon , M. de Tréville was not in the habit of making promises , and that when by chance he did promise , he more than kept his word .
“ We have still fifteen days before us , ” said he to his friends , “ well , if at the end of a fortnight I have found nothing , or rather if nothing has come to find me , as I , too good a Catholic to kill myself with a pistol bullet , I will seek a good quarrel with four of his Eminence ’ s Guards or with eight Englishmen , and I will fight until one of them has killed me , which , considering the number , can not fail to happen .
D ’ Artagnan swam to it and held it , suspending himself by this rope , his head alone out of water .
Do you see the waistcoat ?
“ Now give me the cardinal up here ; if he makes any noise stifle him. ” Mazarin wished to call out , but Porthos held him tight and passed him to D ’ Artagnan , who seized him by the neck and made him sit down by him ; then in a menacing tone , he said : “ Sir !
The sight is hideous. ” “ Fools , ” said Charles , “ do they take me for a coward , like themselves ?
After a hundred yards he turned the corner of the thicket ; he found Rita senseless in the arms of Cucumetto .
“ That name sounds strange to you , ” said Athos , smiling ; “ it was my nom de guerre when Monsieur D ’ Artagnan , two other gallant friends and myself performed some feats of arms at the siege of La Rochelle , under the deceased cardinal and Monsieur de Bassompierre .
The Earl of Essex , ’ tis true , wore a splendid ring , set with diamonds , given him by his royal mistress , whilst I—I have nothing but a simple circlet of gold , with a cipher on it and a date ; but that ring has been blessed in the chapel of the Palais Royal , * so they will never ruin me , as they long to do , and whilst they shout , ‘ Down with Mazarin ! ’ I , unknown , and unperceived by them , incite them to cry out , ‘ Long live the Duke de Beaufort ’ one day ; another , ‘ Long live the Prince de Conde ; ’ and again , ‘ Long live the parliament ! ’ ” And at this word the smile on the cardinal ’ s lips assumed an expression of hatred , of which his mild countenance seemed incapable .
I have two friends , who in this way never depart from me ; the one who gave me being , and the other who conferred knowledge and intelligence on me .
“ One moment , my lord , ” whispered Athos , and he said something in a low voice .
“ Should that diamond ever fall into my hands again , ” he reflected , “ I would turn it at once into money ; I would buy with the proceeds certain lands around my father ’ s chateau , which is a pretty place , well enough , but with no land to it at all , except a garden about the size of the Cemetery des Innocents ; and I should wait in all my glory till some rich heiress , attracted by my good looks , rode along to marry me .
What devotion does she deserve from him for whom she has sacrificed everything !
Section 5 .
Then D ’ Artagnan , as the reader , from whom we have not concealed the state of his fortune , very well knows—D ’ Artagnan was not a millionaire ; he hoped to become one someday , but the time which in his own mind he fixed upon for this happy change was still far distant .
“ Allow me to present you my sincere congratulations , ” replied Madame de Villefort .
As he touched the ground , he opened his eyes .
106 , and good-bye to my dream of resembling the retired baker !
I humbly entreat your majesty to choose quickly , for we have not an instant to lose. ” “ But if I accept , it is death , or at least imprisonment , for him who takes my place. ” “ He will have had the glory of having saved his king , ” cried Winter .
And truly this assurance carried him back to different events from those now occupying the baroness and him .
I do not then see why , without real necessity , I should encumber my life with a perpetual companion .
If they continue to advance , we must fire again .
Almost all the armed pilgrims that went to the Holy Land took for their arms either a cross , in honor of their mission , or birds of passage , in sign of the long voyage they were about to undertake , and which they hoped to accomplish on the wings of faith .
Aramis started back and drew his .
He was charged to tell the Comte de la Fere , that she had learned of the return of her youthful protege , and also the manner he had conducted himself on the field , and she added that she should be very glad to offer him her congratulations .
The hesitation created some suspicion in the three friends , and Athos , advancing a few paces in front of the others , cried in a firm voice , “ Who goes there ? ” “ Who goes there , yourselves ? ” replied one of the horsemen .
Danglars was joking in a friendly way , but Fernand looked pale and agitated. ” “ Were they alone ? ” “ There was a third person with them whom I knew perfectly well , and who had , in all probability made their acquaintance ; he was a tailor named Caderousse , but he was very drunk .
Mademoiselle de Villefort is the culprit—she is the poisoner !
Then Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven , as though to remind his son of a forgotten oath .
Still this extraordinary silence appeared strange to him , and he called a second and third time ; still no answer .
“ Ah !
“ You have an order signed by the cardinal ? ” said the governor .
“ It is sufficient , count , ” he said , and signed the treaty .
I only know one thing I dislike more , which is the sound of your voice. ” “ Really ? ” said Danglars .
He listened for any sound that might be audible , and every time that he rose to the top of a wave he scanned the horizon , and strove to penetrate the darkness .
Ah , I had eighty louis before me ; put down the same sum , so that they who have lost may have nothing to complain of .
“ The Château d ’ If ? ” cried he , “ what are we going there for ? ” The gendarme smiled .
Are you prepared ? ” “ Yes , sir. ” “ You know that we shall fight till one of us is dead , ” said the general , whose teeth were clenched with rage .
He drew portraits , with a piece of coal , of the cardinal ; and as his talents did not enable him to produce a very good likeness , he wrote under the picture that there might be little doubt regarding the original : “ Portrait of the Illustrious Coxcomb , Mazarin. ” Monsieur de Chavigny , the governor of Vincennes , waited upon the duke to request that he would amuse himself in some other way , or that at all events , if he drew likenesses , he would not put mottoes underneath them .
“ Ah , fie ! ” D ’ Artagnan replied .
The chancellor himself would be puzzled how to write such a letter , and yet the chancellor draws up an official report very readily .
He inquired after the count with his usual familiarity , and ascending lightly to the first story met him at the top of the stairs .
“ Oh , whatever may be M. Noirtier ’ s reason , ” answered Morrel , “ I can readily believe it to be a good one. ” “ An excellent one , ” said Valentine .
Nothing was yet to be seen , only they heard the galloping draw nearer .
“ Aramis ! ” cried Athos , “ don ’ t fire ! ” “ Ah !
“ Yes ; a little nervous , perhaps , but , upon the whole , he appeared tolerable .
“ Someone has told you the secret ; or , perhaps , you guessed that he was here. ” “ That who was here ? ” “ Your child—your son—your Andrea ! ” “ I did guess it , ” replied the major with the greatest possible coolness .
Each examined the other with great attention , while exchanging the customary compliments ; both were very handsome , but of quite different styles of beauty .
“ He can turn his coat inside out. ” “ You are always in the right , my dear friend , ” cried Porthos ; “ but where the devil do you discover all the notions you put into practice ? ” D ’ Artagnan smiled .
Then he went out .
Impossible , madame , impossible ! ” “ Edmond , ” said the poor mother , who tried every means , “ when I call you Edmond , why do you not call me Mercédès ? ” “ Mercédès ! ” repeated Monte Cristo ; “ Mercédès !
“ My deduction is , ” replied Villefort , “ that my father , led away by his passions , has committed some fault unknown to human justice , but marked by the justice of God .
At this moment a horse neighed .
Is it from mere humanity you bid me live ?
Pardon my eagerness , for my life depends on your answer .
One of her conditions was that she should come and see me twice a week ; for , as I had the honor to tell you , my wife loves me dearly—my wife , then , came and confided to me that the queen at that very moment entertained great fears. ” “ Truly ! ” “ Yes .
In the first place , La Rochelle appeared impregnable .
“ Yes , I passed the evening at the Cardinal Rospigliosi ’ s , and there mention was made of something like a pardon for one of the two men. ” “ For Andrea Rondolo ? ” asked Franz .
The old marshal turned toward the viscount , grateful for that praise of his son , whilst the prince exclaimed : “ The young man is right ; let the prisoner be brought in. ” Meanwhile the prince took De Guiche aside and asked him how the prisoner had been taken and who this young man was .
When once I know the hour , I will hasten to this spot , you can easily get over this fence with my assistance , a carriage will await us at the gate , in which you will accompany me to my sister ’ s ; there living , retired or mingling in society , as you wish , we shall be enabled to use our power to resist oppression , and not suffer ourselves to be put to death like sheep , which only defend themselves by sighs. ” “ Yes , ” said Valentine , “ I will now acknowledge you are right , Maximilian ; and now are you satisfied with your betrothal ? ” said the young girl sorrowfully .
He waited in order to allow pure air to displace the foul atmosphere , and then went on .
He had scarcely been a week at Leghorn before the hold of his vessel was filled with printed muslins , contraband cottons , English powder , and tobacco on which the excise had forgotten to put its mark .
The Jesuit and the curate quite started from their chairs .
She saw the young officer suspended over the abyss by a ladder of ropes .
Several times , even , I felt a smile on my lips .
He tore the dress of the countess to pieces ; he tied her hands behind her , and hanged her on a tree. ” “ Heavens , Athos , a murder ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Madame de Villefort , who was alone in her drawing-room when the count was announced , desired that her son might be brought thither instantly to renew his thanks to the count ; and Edward , who heard this great personage talked of for two whole days , made all possible haste to come to him , not from obedience to his mother , or out of any feeling of gratitude to the count , but from sheer curiosity , and that some chance remark might give him the opportunity for making one of the impertinent speeches which made his mother say : “ Oh , that naughty child !
“ The usurper ’ s conversion ! ” murmured the duke , looking at the king and Dandré , who spoke alternately , like Virgil ’ s shepherds .
exactly like me !
“ Silence , ” whispered the duke , “ she has her reasons. ” “ She will ruin us ! ” returned the prince .
At ten o ’ clock the guns of the Louvre announced the departure of the king , and then a movement , similar to that of trees in a stormy wind that bend and writhe with agitated tops , ran though the multitude , which was compressed behind the immovable muskets of the guard .
“ Four days , ” replied his friend , “ are necessary to reach Blois ; one day to rest there ; three or four days to return to Paris .
“ Then you must know what her name was as a young girl. ” “ Oh , mon Dieu ! ” cried the executioner , “ I think I am dying .
Mercédès saw it and with the double instinct of woman and mother guessed all ; but as she was prudent and strong-minded she concealed both her sorrows and her fears .
He was certainly eating , and noisily too , like an ill-bred man .
“ Do you wish for a notary ? ” asked Villefort .
Anne of Austria alone was permitted to enter by that door .
He had nothing more to do now , but with the iron tooth of the pickaxe to draw the stones towards him one by one .
As for denying that I am your nephew , you will think twice about it , now that I have learned some things of which I was ignorant a year ago. ” “ And how does it concern me what you have learned ? ” said De Winter .
The young girl ’ s lover was in Cucumetto ’ s troop ; his name was Carlini .
When the procession stopped , this shadow was recognized as Morrel , who , with his coat buttoned up to his throat , his face livid , and convulsively crushing his hat between his fingers , leaned against a tree , situated on an elevation commanding the mausoleum , so that none of the funeral details could escape his observation .
Occasionally the marks were hidden under tufts of myrtle , which spread into large bushes laden with blossoms , or beneath parasitical lichen .
He guessed something uncommon was passing among the living ; but he had so long ceased to have any intercourse with the world , that he looked upon himself as dead .
I repeat to you , however , and this time on my word of honor—I think perhaps too often—that I am in haste , great haste .
Valentine was so pale one might trace the blue veins from her temples , round her eyes and down her cheeks .
Some further discovery will be made , which will bring this dreadful tragedy to a close .
She passed her finger slowly down the columns , and when she came to the word “ Will , ” M. Noirtier ’ s eye bade her stop .
“ No , no , my dear Edmond—my boy—my son ! —no ; but I did not expect you ; and joy , the surprise of seeing you so suddenly—Ah , I feel as if I were going to die. ” “ Come , come , cheer up , my dear father !
“ Come , Monsieur Bazin , make yourself easy , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ people of all conditions gain the kingdom of heaven. ” “ Monsieur was already such a good theologian , ” said Bazin , almost weeping ; “ he might have become a bishop , and perhaps a cardinal. ” “ Well , but my poor Bazin , reflect a little .
We can talk while performing that necessary task .
As our fugitives approached the house , they found the ground cut up , as if a considerable body of horsemen had preceded them .
The young man and young woman perceived they were watched , and redoubled their speed .
“ Had you been in the army you would have been able to pick up a needle on the floor of a closed oven .
His voice had become rough and hoarse ; his face was furrowed with wrinkles ; his eyes burned under the blue-veined lids , and he tottered like a drunken man .
I have asked for no leave of absence. ” “ Hold your tongue and take it ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
We will grow old together and talk of our companions. ” “ No ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ deuce take it , the campaign is going to begin ; I wish to be there , I expect to get something by it. ” “ What do you expect to get ? ” “ Why , I expect to be made Marechal of France ! ” “ Ha !
I did not observe it yesterday. ” “ It must be the fog rising from the river , ” said the king .
Terror had had such an effect upon the poor girl that she had never ceased walking from Paris till she reached Burgundy , her native place .
He was then only fifteen feet from the ground , as the gentlemen below had told him .
“ No ; I should only regret if the horse had not proved good. ” “ It is so good , that I have distanced M. de Château-Renaud , one of the best riders in France , and M. Debray , who both mount the minister ’ s Arabians ; and close on their heels are the horses of Madame Danglars , who always go at six leagues an hour. ” “ Then they follow you ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
D ’ Artagnan fancied quite naturally , according to his custom , that he must be the object of their conversation , and listened .
0125m “ I do not know ; he is no longer in my hands , ” replied Villefort .
could not contain himself , and he made a step toward the queen ’ s apartment with that pale and mute indignation which , when it broke out , led this prince to the commission of the most pitiless cruelty .
As the door closed after them Kitty rushed toward it .
All at once he raised his head ; his brow slightly contracted like that of a man who has formed a resolution ; he fixed his eyes upon an enormous clock that was about to strike ten , and taking up a whistle of silver gilt that stood upon the table near him , he shrilled it twice .
“ He still doubts , ” thought Milady ; “ I have not been earnest enough. ” Someone was heard in the corridor ; Milady recognized the step of Lord de Winter .
As for the queen , furious , and left to her own guidance , she went for the Marechal de la Meilleraie and desired him to take as many men as he pleased and to go and see what was the meaning of this pleasantry .
Patrick ! ” cried the duke , opening the door of the chapel , “ Patrick ! ” His confidential valet appeared .
“ It is my father , who has just left his study. ” “ To accompany the doctor to the door , ” added Morrel .
you know you may say anything to me .
‘ We shall know , sir , ’ replied the president .
my lord—who told you that ? ” “ Nobody , but I know it. ” “ I regret infinitely to tell you , my lord , that you are mistaken , ” replied the Gascon , impudently , firm to the promise he had just made to Anne of Austria .
You are still yourself as now , and yet you are yourself no longer ; you who , like Ariel , verge on the angelic , are but an inert mass , which , like Caliban , verges on the brutal ; and this is called in human tongues , as I tell you , neither more nor less than apoplexy .
“ Fire ! ” cried Mordaunt ; “ fire upon them ! ” Three or four shots were fired , but with no other result than to show the four fugitives turning the corner of the street safe and sound .
Peppino was a handsome young man of four or five-and-twenty , bronzed by the sun ; he carried his head erect , and seemed on the watch to see on which side his liberator would appear .
Nevertheless , he still saw Grimaud with his lantern in front , advancing .
God forbid that the queen should suffer the least inconvenience or uneasiness on my account !
Go on ! ” “ Your advice , then ? ” “ To take the hundred pistoles , D ’ Artagnan .
This something was enveloped in a cloak , and D ’ Artagnan at first believed it was a man ; but by the smallness of the form , the hesitation of the walk , and the indecision of the step , he soon discovered that it was a woman .
“ Oh , all this is a family history , as Château-Renaud told you the other day , ” observed Maximilian .
The opening of this door disclosed a brilliant light , and she disappeared .
The two friends mingled with the crowd and fancied that every one was occupied with the same thought that tormented them .
This precipitation—this unusual appointment .
“ It is true , ” said he , in so low a tone that he could hardly be heard .
Caderousse was , like Fernand , enrolled in the army , but , being married and eight years older , he was merely sent to the frontier .
What would my good father say , who so strongly pointed out to me the respect due to the cardinal , if he knew I was in the society of such pagans ? ” We have no need , therefore , to say that D ’ Artagnan dared not join in the conversation , only he looked with all his eyes and listened with all his ears , stretching his five senses so as to lose nothing ; and despite his confidence on the paternal admonitions , he felt himself carried by his tastes and led by his instincts to praise rather than to blame the unheard-of things which were taking place .
“ Stop , in the name of heaven , Monsieur Porthos ! ” cried she .
He wished to articulate a last farewell , but his tongue lay motionless and heavy in his throat , like a stone at the mouth of a sepulchre .
“ Every evening he shuts himself in there .
Gondy bowed respectfully .
The marshal made no attempt to force that barrier and returned up the quay .
I , who am going to give you another piece of good advice. ” “ What is it ? ” “ To leave behind you the diamond you have on your finger .
“ Monsieur , ” returned Maximilian , raising the glass cover , and respectfully kissing the silken purse , “ this has touched the hand of a man who saved my father from suicide , us from ruin , and our name from shame and disgrace , —a man by whose matchless benevolence we poor children , doomed to want and wretchedness , can at present hear everyone envying our happy lot .
Did you pass through the Corso ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , did you notice two windows hung with yellow damask , and one with white damask with a red cross ?
That will be the signal when I call out—Jesus Seigneur ! ” “ But give us your word that you will come too , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos .
“ Ah !
The young girl perfectly understood the look , and so did Villefort , for his countenance became clouded , and he knitted his eyebrows angrily .
“ See , the prince is pluming himself , ” said one of the thieves .
“ Be punished _alone_ , for the first , miserable man ! ” said Lord de Winter to Felton , who was being dragged away with his eyes turned toward the sea ; “ but I swear to you by the memory of my brother whom I have loved so much that your accomplice is not saved. ” Felton lowered his head without pronouncing a syllable .
I am a straightforward , simple man ; that ’ s my great disadvantage .
IN WHICH THE PLOT THICKENS Chapter XII .
Living , my best friends would avoid my house ; dead , all Marseilles will follow me in tears to my last home .
“ Yes , yes , very sure ! ” “ Perhaps you did not see well. ” “ Oh , if I were to see the plume of his hat , the end of his cloak , I should know _him ! _ ” Milady was dressing herself all the time .
He wore a large brown mantle , one fold of which , thrown over his left shoulder , served likewise to mask the lower part of his countenance , while the upper part was completely hidden by his broad-brimmed hat .
The dishes were of silver , and the plates of Japanese china .
I have dreamed that the unlucky Englishman was dead .
“ I have already made my excuses to the count for quitting him , and I pray you to do so also .
At one of the doors , that by which he had entered , I placed our Scotchman , making a sign to him to follow the man wherever he might go , if he came out again .
His complexion was pale , not of that deadly pallor which is a kind of neutral beauty , but of a bilious , yellow hue ; his colorless hair was short and scarcely extended beyond the circle formed by the hat around his head , and his light blue eyes seemed destitute of any expression .
Let us shut this one up. ” They put the stone back in its place ; the abbé sprinkled a little dust over it to conceal the traces of its having been removed , rubbed his foot well on it to make it assume the same appearance as the other , and then , going towards his bed , he removed it from the spot it stood in .
She inquired if the baron was still at the castle .
I was very far then from expecting the change you have just informed me of ; namely , that four years afterwards , this colossus of power would be overthrown .
The four crossed the public room and proceeded to take possession of the best apartment in the house , which D ’ Artagnan occupied with authority .
“ Give me drink , ” said he : “ I thirst—I burn ! ” Monte Cristo gave him a glass of water .
I am repulsed on all sides. ” “ What ! ” “ It is so indeed ; Mademoiselle Eugénie scarcely answers me , and Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , her confidant , does not speak to me at all. ” “ But the father has the greatest regard possible for you , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ Have I not explained your wishes , grandpapa ? ” said Valentine , addressing Noirtier .
I shall work , doctor—when I work I forget everything. ” And , indeed , no sooner had the doctor left the room , than he was again absorbed in work .
“ The Musketeers are , as you know , picked soldiers , and they require many things useless to the Guardsmen or the Swiss. ” “ But yet , detail them to me. ” “ Why , they may amount to— “ , said Porthos , who preferred discussing the total to taking them one by one .
de Monte Cristo ! ” she exclaimed ; “ and how is he connected with the question you asked me ? ” 40219m “ You know , mother , M. de Monte Cristo is almost an Oriental , and it is customary with the Orientals to secure full liberty for revenge by not eating or drinking in the houses of their enemies. ” “ Do you say M. de Monte Cristo is our enemy ? ” replied Mercédès , becoming paler than the sheet which covered her .
In the evening , about nine o ’ clock , at the moment he had made up his mind to go to bed , he heard steps in his corridor .
But at the first word the young woman started , and exclaimed in a sharp , bantering tone , which sounded strangely in the darkness , “ Are you afraid , dear Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” “ You can not think so , dear love ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ but now , suppose this poor Comte de Wardes were less guilty than you think him ? ” “ At all events , ” said Milady , seriously , “ he has deceived me , and from the moment he deceived me , he merited death. ” “ He shall die , then , since you condemn him ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , in so firm a tone that it appeared to Milady an undoubted proof of devotion .
The doors are about to be opened and in five minutes they will be here. ” “ Laporte , ” said the queen , “ suppose you put one of your sons in the king ’ s place ; we might be off during the time. ” “ If your majesty desires it , ” said Laporte , “ my sons , like myself , are at the queen ’ s service. ” “ Not at all , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ should one of them know his majesty and discover but a substitute , all would be lost. ” “ You are right , sir , always right , ” said Anne of Austria .
“ I am glad to see , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that you have still that honest lad with you. ” “ He is my steward , ” replied Porthos ; “ he will never leave me .
She had formerly been suspected of an intimacy of too tender a nature with Coligny , who , for her sake , had been killed in a duel , in the Place Royale , by the Duc de Guise .
D ’ Artagnan was not one of those foolhardy men who seek a ridiculous death in order that it may be said of them that they did not retreat a single step .
Are you afraid that the Holy Spirit will come as a tongue of fire to open the doors of my prison ? ” “ No , my lord ; but I have already told you what that damned magician predicted. ” “ And what was it ? ” “ That the day of Pentecost would not pass without your highness being out of Vincennes. ” “ You believe in sorcerers , then , you fool ? ” “ I—-I mind them no more than that—— ” and he snapped his fingers ; “ but it is my Lord Giulio who cares about them ; as an Italian he is superstitious. ” The duke shrugged his shoulders .
At five o ’ clock Anne went to the cardinal ’ s room .
‘ I once possessed four dear and faithful friends , besides the maiden to whom I was betrothed ’ he said ; ‘ and I feel convinced they have all unfeignedly grieved over my loss .
Milady listened .
One fact more than the rest brought his friend “ Sinbad the Sailor ” back to his recollection , and that was the mysterious sort of intimacy that seemed to exist between the brigands and the sailors ; and Pastrini ’ s account of Vampa ’ s having found refuge on board the vessels of smugglers and fishermen , reminded Franz of the two Corsican bandits he had found supping so amicably with the crew of the little yacht , which had even deviated from its course and touched at Porto-Vecchio for the sole purpose of landing them .
He still felt the same self-satisfaction which he had experienced the previous evening , and which had procured him so good a night ’ s rest .
Noirtier fixed his eyes on her .
“ Good , ” said Monte Cristo , smiling ; “ in these prompt arrangements we recognize the order of a well-disciplined soldier. ” “ And you leave us , ” said Julie , “ at a moment ’ s warning ?
“ Read , ” said the old man .
Baron , have you any report more recent than this , dated the 20th February , and this is the 3rd of March ? ” “ No , sire , but I am hourly expecting one ; it may have arrived since I left my office. ” “ Go thither , and if there be none—well , well , ” continued Louis XVIII. , “ make one ; that is the usual way , is it not ? ” and the king laughed facetiously .
There , placed between two rivers on the borders of Scotland , but still on English soil , the tents of a little army extended .
“ Here , ” said he , “ is a proof of my satisfaction. ” At this epoch , the ideas of pride which are in fashion in our days did not prevail .
“ Well , they have gone to fetch her , no doubt , from Madame de Morcerf ’ s ; I will await her return , and beg her to come up here .
The tiger , whose nature teaches him to delight in shedding blood , needs but the sense of smell to show him when his prey is within his reach , and by following this instinct he is enabled to measure the leap necessary to permit him to spring on his victim ; but man , on the contrary , loathes the idea of blood—it is not alone that the laws of social life inspire him with a shrinking dread of taking life ; his natural construction and physiological formation—— ” Dantès was confused and silent at this explanation of the thoughts which had unconsciously been working in his mind , or rather soul ; for there are two distinct sorts of ideas , those that proceed from the head and those that emanate from the heart .
This glove , wherever it had not touched the muddy ground , was of irreproachable odor .
When he came home he formed his handkerchief into a loop .
‘ I guess what brings you here. ’ “ ‘ How , and why ? ’ “ ‘ Because a fortnight since I was questioned on the same subject. ’ “ ‘ By whom ? ’ “ ‘ By a banker of Paris , my correspondent. ’ “ ‘ Whose name is—— ’ “ ‘ Danglars. ’ ” “ He ! ” cried Albert ; “ yes , it is indeed he who has so long pursued my father with jealous hatred .
The servant returned with a message to say , that , though the duchess had not the honor of knowing Monsieur de la Fere , she would receive him .
Monte Cristo watched and saw him approach the valet , who drew a small sealed parcel from his pocket , containing a newspaper and a letter .
Are they paid ? ” “ Yes , to-night. ” “ Let them be off and return to their own country , there to hide their shame , if its hills are high enough ; I have nothing more to do with them nor they with me .
I must live henceforth without rank and fortune , and to begin this hard apprenticeship I must borrow from a friend the loaf I shall eat until I have earned one .
Comminges left the head of the escort and went to the queen ’ s carriage .
“ I know you even better now. ” His mocking laugh and threatening words passed over their heads , carried by the breeze , until lost in the depths of the horizon .
“ Adieu , Monsieur de Rochefort , ” he said .
You say M. Danglars dined here ? ” “ Yes , with Count Cavalcanti , the marquis his father , Madame Danglars , M. and Madame de Villefort , —charming people , —M .
“ Come , Caderousse , no nonsense ! ” said he .
The men are all infamous , and I am happy to be able now to do more than detest them—I despise them. ” “ What shall we do ? ” asked Louise .
“ Good !
Bonacieux ; and Mme .
Without doubt , Porthos had reasons for not abandoning this part of his vestments , for instead of quitting his hold on the flap in his hand , he pulled it toward him , so that D ’ Artagnan rolled himself up in the velvet by a movement of rotation explained by the persistency of Porthos .
These two causes were enough to give it a gloomy aspect .
Do you believe it was because I committed the sacrilege of mounting en croupe behind Henry IV .
Remember !
The Parisians , always curious , always affected by funereal display , looked on with religious silence while the splendid procession accompanied to their last abode two of the number of the old aristocracy—the greatest protectors of commerce and sincere devotees to their principles .
Come , ease me of my anxiety , or else frighten me at once. ” “ Lucien , a great event has happened ! ” said the lady , glancing inquiringly at Lucien , — “ M .
I have seen nothing of him the last three or four days. ” “ Nor I , ” said Madame Danglars ; “ but you began a sentence , sir , and did not finish. ” “ Which ? ” “ M .
He must place his sister in one of these , and we shall be in peace. ” “ Yes , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ till she comes out. ” “ Ah , my faith ! ” said Athos , “ you require too much , D ’ Artagnan .
fire , then ! ” when the shot was fired .
Seeing , however , no one there except a musketeer of his own troop , he fixed his eyes upon the supposed soldier , in whose dress , nevertheless , he recognized at the first glance the cardinal .
Chapter LXXXVIII .
is it you , baron ? ” said he .
no , ” said Albert ; “ nor even ancient Greek , my dear count ; never had Homer or Plato a more unworthy scholar than myself. ” “ Then , ” said Haydée , proving by her remark that she had quite understood Monte Cristo ’ s question and Albert ’ s answer , “ then I will speak either in French or Italian , if my lord so wills it. ” Monte Cristo reflected one instant .
“ Ennui is the mortal enemy of prisoners ; I had ennui , and I amused myself with twisting that rope. ” Felton turned his eyes toward the part of the wall of the apartment before which he had found Milady standing in the armchair in which she was now seated , and over her head he perceived a gilt-headed screw , fixed in the wall for the purpose of hanging up clothes or weapons .
Locusta and Agrippina , living at the same time , were an exception , and proved the determination of Providence to effect the entire ruin of the Roman empire , sullied by so many crimes .
Be silent , I will write. ” Aramis accordingly took the quill , reflected for a few moments , wrote eight or ten lines in a charming little female hand , and then with a voice soft and slow , as if each word had been scrupulously weighed , he read the following : “ My Lord , The person who writes these few lines had the honor of crossing swords with you in the little enclosure of the Rue d ’ Enfer .
Chapter 9 .
Why , then , have you laid it aside ? ” “ Because , remembering the scene at Armentieres , I thought I should find four axes for one , as I was to meet four executioners. ” “ Sir , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , in the calmest manner possible , “ you are very young ; I shall therefore overlook your frivolous remarks .
The mind can see as well as the body .
At last D ’ Artagnan , having got up too close , stepped back to prepare a fourth thrust , but the moment when , after a fine , quick feint , he was attacking as sharply as lightning , the wall seemed to give way , Mordaunt disappeared through the opening , and D ’ Artagnan ’ s blade , caught between the panels , shivered like a sword of glass .
Well , this letter gives the Count of Monte Cristo unlimited credit on our house. ” “ Well , baron , what is there difficult to understand about that ? ” “ Merely the term _unlimited_—nothing else , certainly. ” “ Is not that word known in France ?
“ I mean to say , young man , that he who sleeps over a mine the match of which is already lighted , may consider himself in safety in comparison with you. ” “ The devil ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , whom the positive tone of M. de Tréville began to disquiet , “ the devil !
On arriving at its gates they were astounded to see the threatening aspect of the capital .
“ Let us rest here an instant to give these poor creatures breathing time , ” said Porthos .
She had already decided upon seeing him and urging his immediate departure , when , on the very evening of coming to this decision , Mme .
Ali reappeared .
I own that this woman terrifies me. ” “ Shall you have the courage ? ” said Athos .
“ ’ Tis D ’ Artagnan ’ s sword , ” he said .
The recent events , the solitary and eccentric position of the count , his enormous , nay , almost incredible fortune , should have made men cautious , and have altogether prevented ladies visiting a house where there was no one of their own sex to receive them ; and yet curiosity had been enough to lead them to overleap the bounds of prudence and decorum .
“ Well , what ’ s the matter ? ” asked the latter , “ are you going to be ill just now ? ” “ No , but look , ” replied the hostess , pointing to the wounded man ; “ I ask you if you recognize him ? ” “ That man—wait a bit. ” “ Ah !
“ I find England a charming country , and I stay—but on one condition only. ” “ What is it ? ” “ That I am not forced to learn English. ” “ Well , now , ” said Athos , triumphantly , “ I swear to you , my friend , by the God who hears us—I believe that there is a power watching over us , and that we shall all four see France again. ” “ So be it ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ but I—I confess I have a contrary conviction. ” “ Our good D ’ Artagnan , ” said Aramis , “ represents among us the opposition in parliament , which always says no , and always does aye. ” “ But in the meantime saves the country , ” added Athos .
As for Aramis , he went off to the bishop ’ s palace to see if he could possibly pass in with Juxon to the king ’ s presence .
The sound of his voice was at once penetrating and melodious ; and then , that which was inconceivable in Athos , who was always retiring , was that delicate knowledge of the world and of the usages of the most brilliant society—those manners of a high degree which appeared , as if unconsciously to himself , in his least actions .
Alas !
“ You wish to see Blois again ; it is but natural. ” “ Then you permit me to go , you are not angry in your heart ? ” exclaimed Raoul , joyously .
The news caused a great sensation throughout the house ; Madame de Villefort would not believe it , and Valentine was thunderstruck .
“ And the Guardsman ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Still my young scapegrace .
“ Probably , ” said Athos .
D ’ Artagnan no longer doubted that this was Porthos ’ s pleasant dwelling place .
One would think we had tipped the wink. ” “ What could I do ? ” said Porthos .
Between the forest and this accursed spot , a little behind the trampled ground , was the same track of small feet as in the garden ; the carriage had stopped here .
Besides , we will have no words about it .
Albert was constantly expatiating on their good fortune in meeting such a man .
the fair woman on whose account I gave you advice , which naturally you took care not to adopt. ” “ I gave you my reasons. ” “ Yes ; you look there for your outfit , I think you said. ” “ Not at all .
But this , Planchet , is so serious and important that I have not informed my friends that I would entrust this secret to you ; and for a captain ’ s commission I would not write it. ” “ Be satisfied , monsieur , ” said Planchet , “ you shall see if confidence can be placed in me. ” Mounted on an excellent horse , which he was to leave at the end of twenty leagues in order to take the post , Planchet set off at a gallop , his spirits a little depressed by the triple promise made him by the Musketeers , but otherwise as light-hearted as possible .
no boat ! ” exclaimed Groslow ; “ it is impossible. ” “ ’ Tis true , however , ” answered the sailor ; “ there ’ s nothing in the wake of the ship ; besides , here ’ s the end of the cable. ” “ What ’ s the matter ? ” cried Mordaunt , who , coming up out of the hatchway , rushed to the stern , waving his torch .
Arrived at the foot of the bastion , there were still more than a dozen of the enemy .
Finally , the prince led the right wing , resting on Aunay .
Mazarin marked with surprise the diabolical expression with which the young man uttered these words .
“ Are you out of your senses , or do you come peaceably to take breakfast with me ?
“ Poor dear girl !
“ Art thou a messenger from God ; art thou a minister from hell ; art thou an angel or a demon ; callest thou thyself Eloa or Astarte ? ” “ Do you not know me , Felton ?
I have hung up my sword , and cast myself into politics .
That ’ s unpardonable in a man of your age , and who besides , has such a pretty wife as yours. ” “ Oh , Lord !
The two brigands looked at each other for a moment—the one with a smile of lasciviousness on his lips , the other with the pallor of death on his brow .
Chapter XIII .
that is no impediment , sir , ” said she ; “ I have had greater men than you arrested—Guitant ! ” Mazarin sprang forward .
One drop will restore life , as you have seen ; five or six will inevitably kill , and in a way the more terrible inasmuch as , poured into a glass of wine , it would not in the slightest degree affect its flavor .
Did you say he was coming ? ” “ Yes ; summoned by M. de Villefort , who is apparently as anxious to get Mademoiselle Valentine married as M. Danglars is to see Mademoiselle Eugénie settled .
“ Just so .
You didn ’ t know King Charles ; to you he was only a foreigner and you were not obliged to love him. ” So saying , he stretched out his hand , but the other pretended not to see it and he let it drop again slowly by his side .
During this time nothing new occurred in the camp at La Rochelle ; only the king , who was bored , as always , but perhaps a little more so in camp than elsewhere , resolved to go incognito and spend the festival of St. Louis at St. Germain , and asked the cardinal to order him an escort of only twenty Musketeers .
He pushed the door open and entered .
Ah !
For my own part , I have laid aside even the name of my father , and altogether disown his political principles .
Madame de Villefort gazed upon the face so expressive even in its stillness ; then she ventured to raise the coverlet and press her hand upon the young girl ’ s heart .
Bernajoux now fell , and as the Guardsmen were only two against four , they began to cry , “ To the rescue !
These details will guide her on her part , and on your return , I shall perhaps have some good news to tell you .
If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder , your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder .
As captain of the Musketeers , M. de Tréville had the right of entry at all times .
The count then hastened to us , and took us into his house , where he speedily recalled my poor Edward to life .
“ Why , if you ever make use of the details I am about to give you , that you will never let anyone know that it was I who supplied them ; for the persons of whom I am about to talk are rich and powerful , and if they only laid the tips of their fingers on me , I should break to pieces like glass. ” “ Make yourself easy , my friend , ” replied the abbé .
Do you remember , sir , that duel with the Englishman in the inclosure des Carmes ?
One throw is soon made ! ” “ And if I lose ? ” “ You will win. ” “ But if I lose ? ” “ Well , you will surrender the harnesses. ” “ Have with you for one throw ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
They seem like poor fishermen , and suddenly they open some mysterious cavern filled with the wealth of the Indies. ” “ Which means ? ” “ Which means that my Count of Monte Cristo is one of those fishermen .
hurrah !
“ Oh , growl as much as you please , ” cried Lord de Winter , “ but don ’ t try to bite , for I warn you that it would be to your disadvantage .
“ Enough , enough ! ” replied Caderousse ; “ say no more about it ; I will take all the consequences upon myself. ” And he began his story .
“ Listen , M. d ’ Avrigny , listen ! ” Noirtier looked upon Morrel with one of those melancholy smiles which had so often made Valentine happy , and thus fixed his attention .
He knew his time well—the hour when Valentine was giving Noirtier his breakfast , and was sure not to be disturbed in the performance of this pious duty .
Dantès himself was simply , but becomingly , clad in the dress peculiar to the merchant service—a costume somewhat between a military and a civil garb ; and with his fine countenance , radiant with joy and happiness , a more perfect specimen of manly beauty could scarcely be imagined .
He believed they were come to conduct him to the scaffold ; so that when he saw merely and simply , instead of the executioner he expected , only his commissary of the preceding evening , attended by his clerk , he was ready to embrace them both .
Then , all at once , he replied , with that logic which the reader has , doubtless , remarked in him , “ There is nothing astonishing in seeing a gendarme at an inn ; instead of being astonished , let me dress myself. ” And the youth dressed himself with a facility his valet de chambre had failed to rob him of during the two months of fashionable life he had led in Paris .
The baroness had looked forward to this marriage as a means of ridding her of a guardianship which , over a girl of Eugénie ’ s character , could not fail to be rather a troublesome undertaking ; for in the tacit relations which maintain the bond of family union , the mother , to maintain her ascendancy over her daughter , must never fail to be a model of wisdom and a type of perfection .
I am about to struggle for the last time with them .
Do you wish to see the powder-room ? ” “ No .
Unfortunates , who ought to begin with God , do not have any hope in him till they have exhausted all other means of deliverance .
He sent immediately for a cabriolet , and hastened to the publisher ’ s office .
The procurator , seeing he was going , invited him to dinner—an invitation which the Musketeer refused with a majestic air .
In ten minutes after the strangers had departed , Franz was on the road to the Piazza di Spagna , listening with studied indifference to the learned dissertation delivered by Albert , after the manner of Pliny and Calpurnius , touching the iron-pointed nets used to prevent the ferocious beasts from springing on the spectators .
We are ready. ” “ Ah , sir , you have a noble heart ! ” exclaimed the queen , with a burst of gratitude ; whilst Lord de Winter turned to her with a glance which said , “ Did I not answer for them ? ” “ But you , sir ? ” said the queen to Aramis .
Therefore D ’ Artagnan was going to ask leave of absence of M. de Tréville , confiding to him candidly the importance of his departure , when the news was transmitted to him as well as to his three friends that the king was about to set out for Paris with an escort of twenty Musketeers , and that they formed part of the escort .
Really , I think the thing very difficult. ” “ Not at all , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , who was anxious the matter should be accomplished ; “ on the contrary , I think it very easy .
we are not children .
de Monte Cristo is relating horrible stories to us , doubtless intending to frighten us to death. ” “ Yes , ” said Villefort , “ really , count , you frighten the ladies. ” “ What is the matter ? ” asked Debray , in a whisper , of Madame Danglars .
You are right ; it is not you alone this matter concerns , but my lord and his unworthy servant , myself. ” “ Well , then , what do you require besides the general conditions before recited ? ” “ I require , my lord , that Normandy should be given to Madame de Longueville , with five hundred thousand francs and full absolution .
Have you seen him ?
The matter was arranged as D ’ Artagnan had suggested , and when he returned he found the king already seated at his little table , where Parry waited on him , Harrison and his officers sitting together at another table , and , in a corner , places reserved for himself and his companions .
What say you , Morrel ! ” “ _Ma foi_ , he has an open look about him that pleases me , in spite of the singular remark he has made about me. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said Albert , “ Germain informs me that breakfast is ready .
He lighted it and retired .
“ He is cold , ” said Debray .
“ No—it was somewhere—away from here—it was—I do not know—but it appears that this recollection is connected with a lovely sky and some religious _fête_ ; mademoiselle was holding flowers in her hand , the interesting boy was chasing a beautiful peacock in a garden , and you , madame , were under the trellis of some arbor .
That evening I had translated an episode of Judith , and had just communicated my verses to the lady , who gave me all sorts of compliments , and leaning on my shoulder , was reading them a second time with me .
Everything was ready at ten o ’ clock for the departure , and as Athos was watching Raoul mount , a groom rode up from the Duchess de Chevreuse .
They were those we rode on ; and you may rely upon me for the others not being inferior to them .
Grimaud continued to climb like a cat and succeeded at last in catching hold of a hook , which served to keep one of the shutters back when opened .
_Ma foi ! _ I should wish to keep my illusions concerning insects unimpaired ; it is quite enough to have those dissipated which I had formed of my fellow-creatures .
You have acted kindly , count , in bringing me back to the place where I have enjoyed so much bliss .
They advanced towards a boat , which a custom-house officer held by a chain , near the quay .
I have driven away the Swiss to humiliate you , but I shall lodge here no longer .
It was a good augury .
In going up to the target Morcerf picked up two or three swallows that had been rash enough to come within the range of the count ’ s pistol .
Coquenard rose and took from a buffet a piece of cheese , some preserved quinces , and a cake which she had herself made of almonds and honey .
or Sully , Louis XIII .
“ The truth was , that Luigi had not felt the strength to support another such trial , and , half by persuasion and half by force , he had removed Teresa toward another part of the garden .
He then began pacing the room with a pensive and gloomy air , glancing from time to time at the jeweller , who stood reeking with the steam from his wet clothes , and merely changing his place on the warm hearth , to enable the whole of his garments to be dried .
“ Ah !
“ And you—what are you doing here ? ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
What is offered from a generous heart should be accepted generously .
“ _One ! _ ” said the count mysteriously , his eyes fixed on the corpse , disfigured by so awful a death .
“ Swear to me , ” replied Faria , “ to free me if what I tell you prove true , and I will stay here while you go to the spot. ” “ Are you well fed ? ” repeated the inspector .
It is not Monsieur Porthos that your Lordship means ? ” “ Yes , that is my companion ’ s name .
The box taken by Albert was in the first circle ; although each of the three tiers of boxes is deemed equally aristocratic , and is , for this reason , generally styled the “ nobility ’ s boxes , ” and although the box engaged for the two friends was sufficiently capacious to contain at least a dozen persons , it had cost less than would be paid at some of the French theatres for one admitting merely four occupants .
From whom comes this letter ? ” “ From her Majesty , as I think. ” “ From her Majesty ! ” said Buckingham , becoming so pale that D ’ Artagnan feared he would faint as he broke the seal .
“ Yes , Buckingham. ” “ The woman was English , then ? ” “ No , she was French , but she had married in England. ” The monk turned pale , wiped his brow and went and bolted the door .
Precautions .
“ Four thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight louis , ” said Peppino ; “ You have paid two louis in advance. ” 50255m “ What ?
Only , that there may be no delay , I shall borrow one of your horses. ” “ Certainly ; all the four are at your service. ” “ Oh , I need only one of them for the time being. ” “ Shall we take our valets ? ” “ Yes , you may as well take Mousqueton .
you have brought him to see me , thinking to make me happy .
“ One may see that you love your family , Madame Coquenard , ” said the procurator , with a smile that was almost tragic .
THE INTERIOR OF THE MUSKETEERS Chapter VIII .
“ And me , too ! ” said Aramis .
I have been Heaven ’ s substitute to recompense the good—now the god of vengeance yields to me his power to punish the wicked ! ” At these words he gave a signal , and , as if only awaiting this signal , the yacht instantly put out to sea .
Adieu , Paris , adieu ! ” His look wandered over the vast plain like that of some genius of the night ; he passed his hand over his brow , got into the carriage , the door was closed on him , and the vehicle quickly disappeared down the other side of the hill in a whirlwind of dust and noise .
Oh , Valentine , you who have so much influence over your grandpapa , try to make him answer—Soon. ” “ And do you , ” said Valentine , “ depend on me to stimulate the tardiness and arouse the memory of grandpapa ? ” “ Yes , ” cried Morrel , “ make haste .
But how could you charge a Nubian to purchase a house , and a mute to furnish it ? —he will do everything wrong. ” “ Undeceive yourself , monsieur , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ I am quite sure , that , on the contrary , he will choose everything as I wish .
There were two doors ; he bolted them both .
“ What the devil would you have me do with that ? ” said the Englishman .
“ From whom ? ” asked the Gascon .
“ Well—what ? ” responded Franz .
Bertuccio , ” said the count , “ I am very glad to tell you , that while you gesticulate , you wring your hands and roll your eyes like a man possessed by a devil who will not leave him ; and I have always observed , that the devil most obstinate to be expelled is a secret .
we must go and look for them. ” “ All right , ” said Athos .
But poor Captain Leclere—— ” “ What happened to him ? ” asked the owner , with an air of considerable resignation .
A gentleman received , from hand to hand , money from the king , and was not the least in the world humiliated .
Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks , online payments and credit card donations .
He recalled , all at once , the warnings of Lord de Winter , the seductions of Milady , her first attempts after her arrival .
He will answer you. ” The king did so , and the moment after , three muffled knocks , answering the given signal , sounded beneath the floor .
“ Thank you , thank you , ” murmured she .
Well , then , Porthos shall show him how to knock down an ox with a blow of the fist , and I how to trip up a bull by taking him by the horns .
Thus armed , the count held the lives of five men in his hands .
Porthos ! ” cried Athos , and laughed aloud .
Now , Monsieur de Chavigny is not amiable , I allow , but Monsieur du Tremblay is considerably worse. ” “ Indeed ! ” exclaimed the duke , who from time to time looked at the clock , the fingers of which seemed to move with sickening slowness .
He rose again to the surface , struggled with the last desperate effort of a drowning man , uttered a third cry , and felt himself sinking , as if the fatal cannon shot were again tied to his feet .
Moreover , D ’ Artagnan had delivered her from the hands of the demons who wished to search and ill treat her ; and this important service had established between them one of those sentiments of gratitude which so easily assume a more tender character .
Coquenard understood it .
Speak ! ” The window was again opened slowly , and the same face appeared , only it was now still more pale than before .
“ Or , at least , I will go—later. ” He drew Kitty to him .
Morrel pulled the bell , but though he nearly broke the cord no one answered .
The worthy shipowner knew , from Penelon ’ s recital , of the captain ’ s brave conduct during the storm , and tried to console him .
Maximilian uttered a cry of delight , and , springing forwards , seized the hand extended towards him , and imprinted on it a fervent and impassioned kiss .
“ ’ Tis God who gives them into our hands , ” answered Groslow .
As for me , I hate the court and have but one desire at this moment—vengeance .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied the youth , with deep respect , “ and I have performed the commission that you gave me. ” “ But what ’ s the matter , Raoul ? ” said Athos , very anxiously .
Prove it , Danglars .
Unfortunately , in this world of ours , each person views things through a certain medium , and so is prevented from seeing in the same light as others , and Madame Danglars , therefore , very much regretted that the marriage of Eugénie had not taken place , not only because the match was good , and likely to insure the happiness of her child , but because it would also set her at liberty .
D ’ Artagnan started , awakened himself , and as he awoke , stood up exactly like a soldier under arms .
Planchet , who had been the first to enter , was the last to leave .
“ Ah , your pardon , ” said Albert , turning round ; “ will you allow me , captain ? ” And he lighted his cigar at Vampa ’ s torch .
The man who had performed this daring act with so much indifference wore the Transtevere costume .
“ I thought you might want it to show the Abbé Busoni. ” “ Well , when you receive the remaining 40,000 , you shall give me a receipt in full .
let them come in , ” cried the young princess , bounding to the door .
We can not say how long the night seemed to Milady , but D ’ Artagnan believed it to be hardly two hours before the daylight peeped through the window blinds , and invaded the chamber with its paleness .
Every article of dress—hat , coat , gloves , and boots—was from the first makers .
When Mordaunt finds himself discovered he will destroy all , friends and foes ; and on my word he would be bad company in going either to Heaven or to hell. ” “ You have some plan , then ? ” asked Athos .
The most dreadful misfortunes , the most frightful sufferings , the abandonment of all those who loved me , the persecution of those who did not know me , formed the trials of my youth ; when suddenly , from captivity , solitude , misery , I was restored to light and liberty , and became the possessor of a fortune so brilliant , so unbounded , so unheard-of , that I must have been blind not to be conscious that God had endowed me with it to work out his own great designs .
Whilst Porthos , still in bed , was hooking on his cloak for him , a second knock at the door was heard .
He jumped from his horse , threw the bridle on his servant ’ s arms , and joined them .
“ Yes ; but first give me this letter. ” “ You have it already , for it was taken from me with some others which I see in that packet. ” “ Stop a moment , ” said the deputy , as Dantès took his hat and gloves .
“ I do not know whether the wine of Chios produces melancholy , but certainly everything appears to me black in this house , ” said Debray .
“ Which of you gentlemen , ” asked the magistrate , without replying to the count , “ answers to the name of Andrea Cavalcanti ? ” A cry of astonishment was heard from all parts of the room .
A hoarse , broken tone , which was neither a cry nor a sigh , escaped from her , while she became deadly pale .
It was evident that the servants who waited in the antechamber were warned , for as soon as D ’ Artagnan appeared , before even he had asked if Milady were visible , one of them ran to announce him .
Answer me without acting as if you were on the stage ; your interests are concerned in your so doing. ” “ Faith , my lord , it is very necessary for me to make my fortune , your eminence has so long forgotten me. ” “ We need only a week to amend all that .
As they had long been acquainted with the king , they were not much excited ; but D ’ Artagnan , with his Gascon imagination , saw in it his future fortune , and passed the night in golden dreams .
“ Lord de Winter died without revealing anything to his brother .
“ Now , my lord , do not forget , if any harm happens to me on your account , that I have a wife and four children. ” “ Rest assured ; put the gag in , Grimaud. ” In a second La Ramee was gagged and laid prostrate .
No , no , you do yourselves injustice ; but I am here to do you justice .
“ Then how do you hope Valentine will escape ? ” Noirtier kept his eyes steadfastly fixed on the same spot .
“ Well ? ” asked he .
Come , let us talk a little about my father. ” “ Who , then , am I ? ” “ You , sir ? —you are my adopted father .
We have no litmus-paper , but , see , here they come with the syrup of violets. ” The doctor was right ; steps were heard in the passage .
Then they looked at one another .
Then , turning towards Ali , he said , “ Let all the horses in my stables be led before the windows of your young lady , that she may select those she prefers for her carriage .
In a few minutes , through all the doors , down all the staircases , by every exit , everyone hastened to retire , or rather to fly ; for it was a situation where the ordinary condolences , —which even the best friends are so eager to offer in great catastrophes , —were seen to be utterly futile .
“ In the morning at nine o ’ clock , in the day at one o ’ clock , and in the evening at eight .
Bonacieux .
Mousqueton also attracted attention ; and as the romance of Don Quixote was then the fashion , they said that he was Sancho , who , after having lost one master , had found two .
At that moment the door opened .
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE , STRICT LIABILITY , BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3 .
I , your son , as you call me—I will not let you ! ” ’ Twas the first time D ’ Artagnan had ever refused a request from Athos .
Will that do ? ” “ Capitally , ” replied M. de Busigny .
“ Well , Fernand , I must say , ” said Caderousse , beginning the conversation , with that brutality of the common people in which curiosity destroys all diplomacy , “ you look uncommonly like a rejected lover ; ” and he burst into a hoarse laugh .
“ Were it liquid gold , Monsieur Blaisois , our masters would not deny themselves this wine .
Answer me , do not these crimes exist ? ” “ Yes , ” answered Franz ; “ and it is to punish them that duelling is tolerated. ” “ Ah , duelling , ” cried the count ; “ a pleasant manner , upon my soul , of arriving at your end when that end is vengeance !
If I can get enough to rebuild Artagnan , which my ancestors , impoverished by the Crusades , allowed to fall into ruins , and to buy thirty acres of land about it , that is all I wish .
Ah , there he is calling me now .
So important a negotiation should , I think , be conducted by the respective fathers of the young people. ” “ Sir , my father is a man of great foresight and prudence .
Monsieur Aramis , become a poet , I beg of you. ” “ Bazin , my friend , ” said Aramis , “ I believe you meddle with my conversation. ” Bazin perceived he was wrong ; he bowed and went out .
yes betrayed by the Scotch , amongst whom I was born , whom I have always loved better than the English .
“ Be good enough to hurry yourself a little , monsieur monk. ” As for Raoul , he avoided the monk by the whole width of the road and passed him , turning his head away in repulsion .
My sister is in the garden plucking the dead roses ; my brother is reading his two papers , _la Presse_ and _les Débats_ , within six steps of her ; for wherever you see Madame Herbault , you have only to look within a circle of four yards and you will find M. Emmanuel , and ‘ reciprocally , ’ as they say at the Polytechnic School. ” At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty to five-and-twenty , dressed in a silk morning gown , and busily engaged in plucking the dead leaves off a noisette rose-tree , raised her head .
Talk only by gestures , or rather always listen. ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” replied Raoul .
One of the seconds went for a lantern in a coal-barge near , and by its light they examined the weapons .
“ As you please , ” said Athos .
Bazin felt some one pulling his sleeve .
Is monsieur your brother ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , not in the slightest degree embarrassed in the role he was playing .
This way—light us downstairs Bernouin. ” The valet held a wax-light ; the cardinal took a key from his bureau and opening the door of a secret stair descended into the court of the Palais Royal .
The day passed thus ; he scarcely tasted food , but walked round and round the cell like a wild beast in its cage .
Therefore , in spite of all my protestations , if it be as I suspect , my cunning gossip will assure me that he holds his Eminence in horror. ” It , however , proved otherwise .
“ Come , come , ” said Monte Cristo , “ confess honestly that you have not perfect confidence in Thomson & French .
You love me , my beautiful queen , and you will weep for me ? ” “ Oh , my God , my God ! ” cried Anne of Austria , “ this is more than I can bear .
From time to time his nostrils dilated as if eager for the smell of powder , and he panted like a horse .
Is he dead ?
Wait an instant. ” And he pointed his gun at D ’ Artagnan , who was riding toward him at full speed .
“ No , don ’ t be alarmed , although it is to a lady that I am going to present you , and I am anxious that you should love her—— ” The young man looked at the count with a certain uneasiness , but at a smile from Athos he was quickly reassured .
LIMITED WARRANTY , DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “ Right of Replacement or Refund ” described in paragraph 1.F.3 , the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation , the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark , and any other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement , disclaim all liability to you for damages , costs and expenses , including legal fees .
Villefort whispered some words in his ear , to which the officer replied by a motion of his head .
Five months after he had been separated from his son , and almost at the hour of his arrest , he breathed his last in Mercédès ’ arms .
The nations took Attila , who was doomed to destroy them , for a conqueror similar to other conquerors , and it was necessary for both to reveal their missions , that they might be known and acknowledged ; one was compelled to say , ‘ I am the angel of the Lord ’ ; and the other , ‘ I am the hammer of God , ’ in order that the divine essence in both might be revealed. ” “ Then , ” said Villefort , more and more amazed , and really supposing he was speaking to a mystic or a madman , “ you consider yourself as one of those extraordinary beings whom you have mentioned ? ” “ And why not ? ” said Monte Cristo coldly .
the accusation ? ” “ No ; the letter. ” “ Are you sure ? ” “ I saw it done. ” “ That alters the case .
D ’ Artagnan was too grand to promise anything ; he purposed only to do all that he could to increase the glory of his name .
Grimaud drew the comb from his pocket and passing his fingers over the largest teeth , pronounced this one word , “ Pointed. ” “ True , ” said La Ramee .
“ Gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it is half past four , and we have scarcely time to be on the road of Chaillot by six. ” “ Besides , if we go out too late , nobody will see us , ” said Porthos , “ and that will be a pity .
“ One of the cavaliers then hastened to invite Teresa , without whom it was impossible for the quadrille to be formed , but the young girl had disappeared .
He smiled more and more sarcastically and his smile began to make the Gascon anxious .
de Sable , Mme .
“ Now , young man , regulate your conduct accordingly ; and if you entertain , whether from your family , your relations , or even from your instincts , any of these enmities which we see constantly breaking out against the cardinal , bid me adieu and let us separate .
So much the better , young man !
In short , she studied everything , as a skillful comedian does to whom a new part has been assigned in a line to which he is not accustomed .
He could not refrain from admiring the severe beauty of his features , the only defect , or rather the principal quality of which was the pallor .
“ He—he—is—— ” murmured Grimaud , pale as a ghost and seizing his master ’ s hand .
One of the grand causes of this prejudice was the friendship of Anne of Austria for Mme .
Love is the most selfish of all the passions .
“ Yes , ” replied Madame de Villefort ; “ and , would you believe it , count—— ” “ Believe what ? ” “ You think this house pretty , do you not ? ” “ I think it charming. ” “ Well , my husband would never live in it. ” “ Indeed ? ” returned Monte Cristo , “ that is a prejudice on your part , M. de Villefort , for which I am quite at a loss to account. ” “ I do not like Auteuil , sir , ” said the procureur , making an evident effort to appear calm .
“ The Englishman is overflowing with pistoles .
Arrived at Leghorn , he repaired to the house of a Jew , a dealer in precious stones , to whom he disposed of four of his smallest diamonds for five thousand francs each .
get on ! ” The coachman bestowed a heavy blow of the whip upon his horses ; the noble animals bounded forward ; then cries of men who were knocked down were heard ; then a double concussion was felt , and two of the wheels seemed to pass over a round and flexible body .
Felton cast his eyes round for means of escape , and seeing the door free , he rushed into the next chamber , in which , as we have said , the deputies from La Rochelle were waiting , crossed it as quickly as possible , and rushed toward the staircase ; but upon the first step he met Lord de Winter , who , seeing him pale , confused , livid , and stained with blood both on his hands and face , seized him by the throat , crying , “ I knew it !
At that moment Parry turned over several leaves of his Bible and read with a loud voice this verse in Jeremiah : “ God said , ‘ Hear ye the words of the prophets my servants , whom I have sent unto you. ’ ” The four friends exchanged glances .
You might some time ago have looked upon this resolution as a vague project , but today you see it was a reality , and you must submit to it under penalty of breaking your word. ” “ I will keep it , ” returned Morcerf ; “ but I fear that you will be much disappointed , accustomed as you are to picturesque events and fantastic horizons .
I neither ill-use nor ill-treat my servants by word or action .
I have since learned that he was confined in the Château d ’ If , and I should like to learn some particulars of his death. ” “ What was his name ? ” “ The Abbé Faria. ” “ Oh , I recollect him perfectly , ” cried M. de Boville ; “ he was crazy. ” “ So they said. ” “ Oh , he was , decidedly. ” “ Very possibly ; but what sort of madness was it ? ” “ He pretended to know of an immense treasure , and offered vast sums to the government if they would liberate him. ” “ Poor devil ! —and he is dead ? ” “ Yes , sir , five or six months ago , last February. ” “ You have a good memory , sir , to recollect dates so well. ” “ I recollect this , because the poor devil ’ s death was accompanied by a singular incident. ” “ May I ask what that was ? ” said the Englishman with an expression of curiosity , which a close observer would have been astonished at discovering in his phlegmatic countenance .
He had thought the king and queen charming at the ball .
Then , according to foreign custom , the presentations took place .
His zeal had procured him advancement , and he was said to be one of the first who had informed the government of the departure from the Island of Elba. ” “ Then , ” said Monte Cristo “ you went to him ? ” “ ‘ Monsieur , ’ I said , ‘ my brother was assassinated yesterday in the streets of Nîmes , I know not by whom , but it is your duty to find out .
“ And you approve of what she said—that is to say , you declare that the signs which she mentioned are really those by means of which you are accustomed to convey your thoughts ? ” “ Yes. ” “ It was you who sent for me ? ” “ Yes. ” “ To make your will ? ” “ Yes. ” “ And you do not wish me to go away without fulfilling your original intentions ? ” The old man winked violently .
Is this young man an assassin by profession—a murderer in cold blood ?
More than that , we shall have a tempest , or I don ’ t know what ’ s what. ’ You could see the wind coming like the dust at Montredon ; luckily the captain understood his business .
what is the matter with my horse ? ” “ Your horse is falling , ” said Porthos , reining in his own .
Do you wish this frightful secret to remain with us ?
I suppose you have no more money and that they will be welcome. ” “ I have still twenty pistoles , sir. ” “ Well , take them ; that makes seventy. ” “ And if you wish for more , ” said Porthos , putting his hand to his pocket—— “ Thank you , sir , ” replied Raoul , blushing ; “ thank you a thousand times. ” At this moment Olivain appeared .
This account confirmed that of the mayor .
“ Oh , you do not know what is seventeen months in prison ! —seventeen ages rather , especially to a man who , like me , had arrived at the summit of his ambition—to a man , who , like me , was on the point of marrying a woman he adored , who saw an honorable career opened before him , and who loses all in an instant—who sees his prospects destroyed , and is ignorant of the fate of his affianced wife , and whether his aged father be still living !
executioner , as you were , of King Charles !
Raoul then approached them as Athos had directed him to do .
If he detested her , it would be all the better , ” replied Athos .
“ Horse ! ” said Aramis , with a grimace of disgust .
_Dear friend_ to an Englishman , ” interrupted Athos ; “ well commenced !
de Château-Renaud exaggerates. ” “ Not worth speaking of ? ” cried Château-Renaud ; “ life is not worth speaking of ! —that is rather too philosophical , on my word , Morrel .
They both went into the house ; the drawing-room was lighted up—they went in there .
Edward endured the accident with miraculous courage—he did not utter a single cry , but fell lifeless into my arms ; nor did a tear fall from his eyes after it was over .
“ Well , ” asked Franz , “ what think you of the Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ What do I think ? ” said Albert , evidently surprised at such a question from his companion ; “ I think he is a delightful fellow , who does the honors of his table admirably ; who has travelled much , read much , is , like Brutus , of the Stoic school , and moreover , ” added he , sending a volume of smoke up towards the ceiling , “ that he has excellent cigars. ” Such was Albert ’ s opinion of the count , and as Franz well knew that Albert professed never to form an opinion except upon long reflection , he made no attempt to change it .
Grimaud came , rubbing his half-open eyes , to answer this noisy summons , and D ’ Artagnan sprang with such violence into the room as nearly to overturn the astonished lackey .
30 in the Avenue des Champs-Élysées that the Count of Monte Cristo lived , and who , being answered by the porter in the affirmative , entered , closed the gate after him , and began to ascend the steps .
“ Now , ” said the unknown to Franz , “ I do not know if you are of my opinion , but I think nothing is more annoying than to remain two or three hours together without knowing by name or appellation how to address one another .
You would then be in present possession of the letter .
dear D ’ Artagnan !
“ My lord , either with the officers of the guard , with the other prisoners , or with me. ” “ But does he not approach the walls while playing ? ” “ Your eminence doesn ’ t know those walls ; they are sixty feet high and I doubt if Monsieur de Beaufort is sufficiently weary of life to risk his neck by jumping off. ” “ Hum ! ” said the cardinal , beginning to feel more comfortable .
“ Exactly , my daughter ; that is precisely what I mean , ” said Danglars , almost digging his nails into his breast , while he preserved on his harsh features the smile of the heartless though clever man ; “ ruined—yes , that is it. ” “ Ah ! ” said Eugénie .
“ I mean that the wife of the first magistrate in the capital shall not , by her infamy , soil an unblemished name ; that she shall not , with one blow , dishonor her husband and her child. ” “ No , no—oh , no ! ” “ Well , madame , it will be a laudable action on your part , and I will thank you for it ! ” “ You will thank me—for what ? ” “ For what you have just said. ” “ What did I say ?
Swear , my son. ” The child stretched out his little hand toward that of his father and said , “ I swear to your majesty. ” “ Henry , ” said Charles , “ call me your father. ” “ Father , ” replied the child , “ I swear to you that they shall kill me sooner than make me king. ” “ Good , my child .
Oh , my God , thou knowest whether I am guilty !
“ In my house , ” murmured he , “ in my house ! ” “ Come , magistrate , ” said M. d ’ Avrigny , “ show yourself a man ; as an interpreter of the law , do honor to your profession by sacrificing your selfish interests to it. ” “ You make me shudder , doctor .
‘ Kill , ’ said she , ‘ but spare the honor of the widow of Ali. ’ — ‘ It is not to me to whom you must address yourself , ’ said Kourchid .
We will arrange the matter rather better .
They have selected a field of battle on which I am an abler general than they—that of a conference .
Time , however , passed away ; the hours , one after another , seemed to awaken the clock as they passed , and every blow of the brass hammer resounded upon the heart of the prisoner .
“ Proceed ! ” said he to the host .
Lord , how I have eaten ! ” M. Coquenard had eaten his soup , the black feet of the fowl , and the only mutton bone on which there was the least appearance of meat .
“ I ’ ve broken my man ’ s skull , ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Porthos went away after having appointed a meeting with the procurator ’ s wife in the cloister of St. Magloire .
Yet you have unquestionably some ambition. ” “ I have , sir. ” “ And what may it be ? ” “ I too , as happens to every man once in his life , have been taken by Satan into the highest mountain in the earth , and when there he showed me all the kingdoms of the world , and as he said before , so said he to me , ‘ Child of earth , what wouldst thou have to make thee adore me ? ’ I reflected long , for a gnawing ambition had long preyed upon me , and then I replied , ‘ Listen , —I have always heard of Providence , and yet I have never seen him , or anything that resembles him , or which can make me believe that he exists .
Yes , Athos , you may laugh , but as long as we were within gunshot of the pier or of the vessels lying by it I was looking for a frightful discharge of musketry which would crush us. ” “ But , ” said Porthos , with great wisdom , “ that was impossible , for they would have killed the captain and the sailors. ” “ Bah !
Athos started .
“ Grimaud , ” said Athos , “ put yourself at the head of the troop and beware of the monk. ” Grimaud shuddered , and nodding , awaited the departure , regarding the butt of his musket with silent eloquence .
In vain—were I an ambitious man—should I struggle against such remembrances as he has left ; but that I am not ambitious I am going to prove to you .
Athos took advantage of this moment to tell his two companions to fasten the door inside , and to make them a sign to come and listen with him .
They ask my name , I can not give it , since my parents abandoned me .
Balls , parties , and _fêtes_ are over ; the Italian opera is in London ; the French opera everywhere except in Paris .
That is the hour when I am expected. ” “ Madame , ” said the young man , bowing ; “ I can refuse nothing asked of me thus .
His Eminence took the paper , and read in a slow voice , dwelling upon every syllable : “ Dec .
“ Franz introduced me to her at Rome , ” replied Albert .
The bed belonging to the present occupants was placed as the former owner of the chamber had been accustomed to have his ; and , in spite of his efforts to prevent it , the eyes of Edmond were suffused in tears as he reflected that on that spot the old man had breathed his last , vainly calling for his son .
There they inquired and learned that the prince had in reality quitted Bethune and stationed himself between Cambria and La Venthie .
At length they heard the cannon so near that it was evident they were within a league of the field of battle , and at a turn of the road they perceived the little village of Aunay .
You possess a quality which can never belong to Mademoiselle Danglars .
Mousqueton took the place of the coachman , and drove standing , for reasons known to himself , like Automedon of antiquity .
But I do not mean , my friend that we were right in what we did .
“ Before God and before men , I accuse this woman of having urged me to the murder of the Baron de Wardes ; but as no one else can attest the truth of this accusation , I attest it myself .
Go on , Baptistin. ” “ Then to admit no one except Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and his son. ” “ You hear—Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti—a man who ranks amongst the most ancient nobility of Italy , whose name Dante has celebrated in the tenth canto of _The Inferno_ , you remember it , do you not ?
I know a man who will find the means of taking me from Paris , a man I have too long forgotten. ” Then falling into a reverie , she added , however , with an expression of joy , “ Ungrateful woman that I am , for twenty years I have forgotten this man , whom I ought to have made a marechal of France .
Try , Aramis , to keep near the king .
The prince smiled ; he despised flatterers , but he appreciated enthusiasts .
“ But how can you continue to receive us ? ” asked the coadjutor ; “ if your income is lessened I shall be obliged to make you a canon of Notre Dame. ” “ Oh , no ! ” cried Scarron , “ I should compromise you too much. ” “ Perhaps you have resources of which we are ignorant ? ” “ I shall borrow from the queen. ” “ But her majesty has no property , ” interposed Aramis .
But the story of the crab made a great noise through the interior of the donjon and even outside .
“ Because , as Porthos was talking louder than the rest of us , he took him for the chief , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
He first advanced towards the baroness , who was chatting with Madame de Villefort , who had come alone , Valentine being still an invalid ; and without turning aside , so clear was the road left for him , he passed from the baroness to Eugénie , whom he complimented in such rapid and measured terms , that the proud artist was quite struck .
“ I was , ” replied the procureur ; “ you begged me not to leave. ” “ Did you notice the symptoms of the disease to which Madame de Saint-Méran has fallen a victim ? ” “ I did .
In God ’ s name answer me ! ” “ He is with Edward , who is not quite well , ” replied Madame de Villefort , no longer being able to avoid answering .
At that moment Patrick entered the room , crying , “ A letter from France , my Lord. ” “ From France ! ” cried Buckingham , forgetting everything in thinking from whom that letter came .
Die in peace ! ” “ And I , ” said M. d ’ Artagnan .
“ Let us go , ” said he ; “ it is five minutes past seven , and the appointment was for eight o ’ clock. ” A carriage was in readiness at the door .
This permission , we feel bound to say , was graciously granted ; which compels us here to give a public contradiction to the slanderers who pretend that we live under a government but moderately indulgent to men of letters .
The feather in his hat is worth at least five-and-twenty pistoles .
The boat , indeed , seemed to be animated with almost human intelligence , so promptly did it obey the slightest touch ; and Dantès required but a short trial of his beautiful craft to acknowledge that the Genoese had not without reason attained their high reputation in the art of shipbuilding .
“ Madame du Vallon was of doubtful gentility .
I do not know her , but a sort of intuition tells me she is a lost creature , and that there is something fatal about her. ” “ You are right , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I will have done with her .
“ My turn , ” said Athos , himself trembling as the lion trembles at the sight of the serpent— “ my turn .
D ’ Artagnan , pressing his hand , repeated his call .
“ No , ” replied Athos , “ fortunately Monsieur d ’ Artagnan has only fainted. ” “ Ah , indeed , so much the better ! ” said Lord de Winter .
“ Lieutenant , with a promise of becoming captain. ” “ ’ Tis capital ; and pray , how did you acquire all these honors ? ” “ In the first place , gentlemen , you know that I was the means of Monsieur de Rochefort ’ s escape ; well , I was very near being hung by Mazarin and that made me more popular than ever. ” “ So , owing to your popularity—— ” “ No ; thanks to something better .
“ Oh , sir , ” said Danglars , after he had convinced himself of the authenticity of the documents he held , and rising as if to salute the power of gold personified in the man before him , — “ three letters of unlimited credit !
There still remains that of Bernajoux , but you must not be too confident. ” As to the rest , M. de Tréville had good reason to mistrust the cardinal and to think that all was not over , for scarcely had the captain of the Musketeers closed the door after him , than his Eminence said to the king , “ Now that we are at length by ourselves , we will , if your Majesty pleases , converse seriously .
We even have , as you may have heard , introduced a barrel of powder under one of the angles , which in blowing up made a very pretty breach .
If you deprive me of that , take away my life also. ” “ We are forbidden to shed your blood. ” “ And by whom are you forbidden ? ” “ By him we obey. ” “ You do , then , obey someone ? ” “ Yes , a chief. ” “ I thought you said you were the chief ? ” “ So I am of these men ; but there is another over me. ” “ And did your superior order you to treat me in this way ? ” “ Yes. ” “ But my purse will be exhausted. ” “ Probably. ” “ Come , ” said Danglars , “ will you take a million ? ” “ No. ” “ Two millions ? —three ? —four ?
“ Can I do anything for you , gentlemen ? ” asked the duke .
’ Tis enough to kill the body , without killing the soul. ” Bazin made a despairing sign which meant that while perhaps he approved the moral he altogether disapproved the tone in which it was uttered .
“ Why ? —what do you mean by that question ? ” “ I mean that if there were , it would be impossible to draw up with impunity two such deeds as these .
I am anxious to see that young man nearer. ” “ And wherefore ? ” “ Aramis , you will certainly laugh at me , you will say that I am always repeating the same thing , you will call me the most timorous of visionaries ; but to whom do you see a resemblance in that young man ? ” “ In beauty or on the contrary ? ” asked Aramis , laughing .
If you loved me , oh , if you loved me , that would be too great happiness , and I should run mad .
_Morbleu ! _ My part is taken !
“ Follow you ! ” cried Bonacieux , “ follow you at this hour !
M. d ’ Épinay became very pale ; he looked round him a second time , several members of the club were whispering , and getting their arms from under their cloaks .
“ The mission with which I am charged , sir , ” replied the visitor , speaking with hesitation , “ is a confidential one on the part of him who fulfils it , and him by whom he is employed. ” The abbé bowed .
Do you want money ?
Athos , who heard Milady ’ s voice , came sharply up .
My valet , in examining this mournful relic , felt a paper in the pocket and drew it out ; it was a letter addressed to you , baron. ” “ To me ? ” cried Danglars .
had any one but you been there , I don ’ t say—— ” D ’ Artagnan bowed .
I fancy I perceive around us faces of different officers in the royal army ; is not that the Duc de Chatillon himself coming toward us with his brigadiers ? ” “ Good-day , sirs , ” said the duke , advancing ; “ you are puzzled by what you see here , but one word will explain everything .
Bah !
“ Now , listen , Albert .
“ Let us say no more on the subject ; you tell me so , I believe you .
They will kill him , you may be sure of it. ” “ I don ’ t maintain the contrary , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Drink then , and do not meddle with what we are discussing , for that requires all one ’ s wit and cool judgment. ” “ I—drunk ! ” said Caderousse ; “ well that ’ s a good one !
On her side Mme .
perhaps not so great as you think , Porthos ; you know the proverb , ‘ All roads lead to Rome. ’ ” “ But how is it that we are incurring greater risks than Athos and Aramis ? ” asked Porthos .
The count said a word in Arabic to Ali , and the horses went on at great speed .
Each of them , from time to time , kissed the crucifix a confessor held out to them .
“ And in what have I been so unfortunate as to displease your Majesty ? ” asked M. de Tréville , feigning the most profound astonishment .
One fine morning the king commanded M. de Chevalier Dessessart to admit D ’ Artagnan as a cadet in his company of Guards .
Villefort placed the arm of Madame de Saint-Méran within his own , and conducted her to his apartment .
“ The day has been unfortunate , but it is not your fault , thank God !
THE WIFE OF ATHOS Chapter XXVIII .
Do not forget this evening—do not forget that promise. ” “ Be satisfied .
Know that Monsieur de Bracieux is rich enough to drink a tun of port wine , even if obliged to pay a pistole for every drop. ” His manner became more and more lofty every instant ; then he arose and after finishing off the beer at one draught he advanced majestically to the door of the compartment where the wine was .
“ Faith !
“ At the lesser gate of the castle ; he ’ s posted there. ” “ Are you a large party ? ” “ Sixty. ” “ Let him know. ” “ This moment , sir. ” And believing that no one could execute the commission better than himself , Grimaud set off at full speed ; whilst , enchanted at being all together again , the friends awaited his return .
The sepulchral depths of the descent were dimly lighted by a silver lamp on the lowest step ; and just below this lamp there was laid , wrapped in a flowing mantle of violet velvet , worked with fleurs-de-lis of gold , a catafalque resting on trestles of oak .
Before his departure , the count went to Haydée ’ s apartments , told her his intention , and resigned everything to her care .
Eight thousand crowns amounted to 48,000 livres ; he would then have about 5,050,000 francs left .
“ In the time of the cardinal people fired better than that , do you remember the road to Crevecoeur , Mousqueton ? ” “ Ah , sir !
Why did you not tell me so before ?
But the next moment the unfortunate man was nearly killed with heavy blows of sword-hilts , and among those who set upon him the king recognized Captain Groslow .
At length she rallied , drew aside the curtain , and leaning over the pillow gazed intently on Valentine .
They were untouched ; the hundred louis he had reserved for his journey from Rome to Venice were in his trousers pocket , and in that of his greatcoat he found the little note-case containing his letter of credit for 5,050,000 francs .
“ Alas , ” said Milady , “ I know it is so .
Ere long Marseilles presented herself to view , —Marseilles , white , fervid , full of life and energy , —Marseilles , the younger sister of Tyre and Carthage , the successor to them in the empire of the Mediterranean , —Marseilles , old , yet always young .
“ This is the case , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ this is your brother , Madeleine ; you don ’ t know him perhaps , but I know him ; he has arrived from Amsterdam .
“ Are you going to leave us , count ? ” said Madame de Villefort .
Monte Cristo looked at her with an emotion that must have been remarked by Morrel had not his eyes been fixed on the vessel .
“ Who comes there ? ” cried the sentinel , who was less abstracted , and who saw by the lamp-light a shadow approaching his chief .
There was no longer a doubt that Felton was convinced ; Felton was hers .
Good-bye , count. ” Morcerf took his hat , and left the room .
Dantès instantly turned to meet him .
“ Ah !
Oh , hear me to the end !
A peer of France ? ” “ Ah , ” said Andrea , “ who knows ? ” “ Major Cavalcanti is already one , perhaps ; but then , hereditary rank is abolished. ” “ No politics , Caderousse .
“ No , this is his blood. ” “ Where were you , then ? ” “ Where you left me—under the scaffold. ” “ Did you see it all ? ” “ No , but I heard all .
La Ramee was in ecstasies at having beaten a prince of the blood .
It was an Oriental feast that he offered to them , but of such a kind as the Arabian fairies might be supposed to prepare .
This kiosk appeared to me to be at a considerable distance , perhaps on account of the darkness of the night , which prevented any object from being more than partially discerned .
I should like , however , to know what this letter addressed to Tréville contains. ” And the stranger , muttering to himself , directed his steps toward the kitchen .
“ Pass on , ” replied the guard .
Is it possible that you can see anything more than the merest chance in this meeting ?
“ We will give the fifty pistoles to the hostess for our expenses , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and share the three hundred. ” “ We will share , ” said Porthos .
You have an opportunity now , Count ; do not allow it to escape. ” D ’ Artagnan became very pale ; he was wounded in his _self_-love : he thought that it was in his _love_ .
“ True , ” interrupted the young man , “ I had not looked upon it in that light. ” “ Now , ” replied Monte Cristo “ there is only one source of uneasiness left in your father ’ s mind , which is this—he is anxious to know how you have been employed during your long absence from him , how you have been treated by your persecutors , and if they have conducted themselves towards you with all the deference due to your rank .
Bonacieux expected him .
Caderousse looked so closely at it that Andrea well knew that he was examining to see if all the edges were perfect .
He is very susceptible. ” “ Bah , ” said Debray ; “ he scarcely knew Mademoiselle de Villefort ; you said so yourself. ” “ True .
If I take you , you will be hung ! ” The young man did not wait to be told twice , but passing under the horse ’ s head disappeared at the corner of the Rue Guenegaud .
There , however , ended the signs which might have confounded her with a lady of rank .
Consider , in short , your people who love you and who yet are famished , who have no other wish than to bless you , and who , nevertheless—no , I am wrong , your subjects , madame , will never curse you ; say one word to them and all will be ended—peace succeed war , joy tears , and happiness to misfortune ! ” Anne of Austria looked with wonderment on the warlike countenance of D ’ Artagnan , which betrayed a singular expression of deep feeling .
“ Speak to the governor , then. ” “ And where is the governor ? ” “ In the country. ” Anger mounted to D ’ Artagnan ’ s face ; he frowned and his cheeks were colored .
We were but the instruments , that is all. ” “ But as to free will , Aramis ? ” “ How acts the judge ?
Grimaud put his basket on the ground and sat down with a shake of the head .
“ Well thought of , Porthos ; this time you have an idea. ” “ Undoubtedly , ” said Porthos , drawing himself up at Athos ’ s compliment ; “ as there is a diamond , let us sell it. ” “ But , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it is the queen ’ s diamond. ” “ The stronger reason why it should be sold , ” replied Athos .
“ What ! ” she cried , wringing her beautiful hands , “ What !
This toast , recalling at once the patient exile of Hartwell and the peace-loving King of France , excited universal enthusiasm ; glasses were elevated in the air _à l ’ Anglaise_ , and the ladies , snatching their bouquets from their fair bosoms , strewed the table with their floral treasures .
Leave us alone , then , and you will enjoy a little amusement without cost to yourselves. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said Jussac , “ it is with great regret that I pronounce the thing impossible .
He can not possibly serve you as a pattern for your conduct , not being , as you are , a paid servant , but a mere slave—a dog , who , should he fail in his duty towards me , I should not discharge from my service , but kill. ” Baptistin opened his eyes with astonishment .
I point one of the poniards at La Ramee ’ s breast and I say to him , ‘ My friend , I am sorry for it , but if thou stirrest , if thou utterest one cry , thou art a dead man ! ’ ” The duke , in pronouncing these words , suited , as we have said , the action to the words .
They proceeded thus to Peronne .
“ There is someone , then , concealed here whose throat this amiable lady is desirous of cutting , ” said de Winter , in an ironical , contemptuous tone .
This measure somewhat reassured Bonacieux .
Between the two baskets he placed a small silver cup with a silver cover .
1.E.2 .
These arrangements made , the lackeys retired .
Morrel followed him , and looked also for his sister and brother in-law ; he soon discovered them in another box , and kissed his hand to them .
“ What is that noise ? ” demanded Milady .
Albert stood one moment speechless by the side of his mother ’ s bed .
Let him come. ” “ Yes , ” echoed Porthos , glancing affectionately at his sword , still hanging on the wall ; “ we can wait for him ; let him come. ” “ Moreover , he is but a child , ” said Aramis .
but this is , indeed , civil war which you propose to me , dear Aramis. ” “ War for the king. ” “ Yet the king will be at the head of the army on Mazarin ’ s side. ” “ But his heart will be in the army commanded by the Duc de Beaufort. ” “ Monsieur de Beaufort ?
All four , besides , immediately broke off their conversation .
“ Because it has instilled a new passion in your heart—that of vengeance. ” Dantès smiled .
What must the mistrustful , restless , suspicious cardinal think of her silence—the cardinal , not merely her only support , her only prop , her only protector at present , but still further , the principal instrument of her future fortune and vengeance ?
I am going to Beauchamp , in whose journal this paragraph appears , and I shall insist on his retracting the assertion before two witnesses. ” “ Beauchamp will never retract. ” “ Then we must fight. ” “ No you will not , for he will tell you , what is very true , that perhaps there were fifty officers in the Greek army bearing the same name. ” “ We will fight , nevertheless .
Gendarmes , I am at your service .
Then everyone could understand the cause of the unearthly pallor in the young girl and the bandit .
“ And as I am a connoisseur in such things , having had a few of my own once , I estimated it at a thousand pistoles. ” “ I hope , ” said D ’ Artagnan , half dead with fright , “ you made no mention of my diamond ? ” “ On the contrary , my dear friend , this diamond became our only resource ; with it I might regain our horses and their harnesses , and even money to pay our expenses on the road. ” “ Athos , you make me tremble ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Oh , do something for me. ” The doctor flew to his patient .
As he was perfectly acquainted with the details of gastronomy , D ’ Artagnan and Aramis made no objection to abandoning this important care to him .
Truly , it is only bastards who are thus fortunate .
On entering he found a man of short stature and intelligent eyes , but covered with rags .
He knew all objection would be useless , and instantly determined how to act .
Grimaud no doubt shared the misgivings of the young man , for seeing that they continued to advance toward the bastion—something he had till then doubted—he pulled his master by the skirt of his coat .
He was compelled , then , after having swallowed the contents of his bottle , to pass the time as well as to evade suspicion , to fall into the easiest position in his corner and to sleep , whether well or ill. D ’ Artagnan , be it remembered , was only twenty years old , and at that age sleep has its imprescriptible rights which it imperiously insists upon , even with the saddest hearts .
“ Madame , ” said he , with dignity , “ there will shortly be a ball at the Hôtel de Ville .
In addition to the sword thrust in his arm , which is not dangerous , he has received another right through his lungs , of which the doctor says bad things. ” “ But has the wounded man retained his senses ? ” “ Perfectly. ” “ Does he talk ? ” “ With difficulty , but he can speak. ” “ Well , monsieur , let us go to him .
We discoursed a long time , madame , on different subjects ; of Perugino , of Raphael , of manners , customs , of the famous _aqua Tofana_ , of which they had told you , I think you said , that certain individuals in Perugia had preserved the secret. ” “ Yes , true , ” replied Madame de Villefort , somewhat uneasily , “ I remember now. ” “ I do not recollect now all the various subjects of which we discoursed , madame , ” continued the count with perfect calmness ; “ but I perfectly remember that , falling into the error which others had entertained respecting me , you consulted me as to the health of Mademoiselle de Villefort. ” “ Yes , really , sir , you were in fact a medical man , ” said Madame de Villefort , “ since you had cured the sick. ” “ Molière or Beaumarchais would reply to you , madame , that it was precisely because I was not , that I had cured my patients ; for myself , I am content to say to you that I have studied chemistry and the natural sciences somewhat deeply , but still only as an amateur , you understand. ” At this moment the clock struck six .
By the way—— ” “ What ? ” said Albert , seeing that Beauchamp hesitated .
Aramis and I are very unhappy ; but God , our courage , and the remembrance of our friendship sustain us .
While doing so , he observed M. Noirtier at one of the open windows , where the old man had been placed that he might enjoy the last rays of the sun which yet yielded some heat , and was now shining upon the dying flowers and red leaves of the creeper which twined around the balcony .
But not being able to stifle her , she smiled upon her .
He has promised to use his influence to obtain it for me ; but he also declared that he never had taken on himself the responsibility of making proposals for another , and he never would .
It is a prison within a prison ; the walls are double the thickness of the rest .
Go now , at once , or I shall have you put out. ’ “ I looked at him an instant to see if there was anything to hope from further entreaty .
Their joy was great .
“ Go on , my child , ” said the count in the Romaic language .
“ Thou alarmest me ! ” said Athos , who never used _thee_ and _thou_ but upon very particular occasions , “ what has happened ? ” “ Look you , my friends ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ a horrible suspicion crosses my mind !
“ Oh , madame , I do not presume to call myself your friend , but at all times I am your most respectful servant. ” The countess left with an indescribable pang in her heart , and before she had taken ten steps the count saw her raise her handkerchief to her eyes .
Meanwhile , what are you going to do ? ” “ I ? ” “ Yes , you. ” “ It is very kind of you to trouble yourself about me. ” “ Since you interest yourself in my affairs , I think it is now my turn to ask you some questions. ” “ Ah , true .
The host opened the door of a large room , in which an old stove had just been replaced by a large and excellent chimney .
But we have not as yet declared war ; perhaps we shall have to make certain conditions , therefore a solemn conference is indispensable. ” “ For my own part , I demand it , ” said Aramis .
Only imagine me a captain at twenty , with a hundred louis pay , and a share in the profits !
Grimaud was left alone with the executioner , who in a few moments opened his eyes .
He sighed , and whispered a name , and the head bathed in tears and pressed on the velvet cushion of the chair—a head like that of a Magdalen by Correggio—was raised and turned towards him .
“ Your servants , ” said he , “ who were repeating the whole of the sorrowful story ; from them I learned it all. ” “ But it was risking the failure of our plan to come up here , love. ” “ Forgive me , ” replied Morrel ; “ I will go away. ” “ No , ” said Valentine , “ you might meet someone ; stay. ” “ But if anyone should come here—— ” The young girl shook her head .
“ Yes , very well .
Return on Sunday. ’ On the Sunday following I did return to him .
“ The king !
A fortnight after I was at Rogliano , and I said to Assunta : “ ‘ Console thyself , sister ; Israel is dead , but he is avenged. ’ “ She demanded what I meant , and when I had told her all , — ‘ Giovanni , ’ said she , ‘ you should have brought this child with you ; we would have replaced the parents it has lost , have called it Benedetto , and then , in consequence of this good action , God would have blessed us. ’ In reply I gave her the half of the linen I had kept in order to reclaim him if we became rich. ” “ What letters were marked on the linen ? ” said Monte Cristo .
At half-past three in the winter the fire was lighted by the discreet servant , who had the superintendence of the little apartment , and in the summer ices were placed on the table at the same hour .
So much did this one idea haunt the cardinal even in his sleep , that when at seven in the morning Bernouin came to arouse him , his first words were : “ Well , what ’ s the matter ?
But I ’ m his cousin ; he told me everything and desired me to watch instead of him , and in his place to conduct , wherever they wished to go , the gentlemen who should bring me a handkerchief tied at each corner , like that one which you hold and one which I have in my pocket. ” And he drew out the handkerchief .
What did Mazarin do ? ” “ Stormed ! ” suggested Athos .
The principal charge against you is this letter , and you see—— ” Villefort approached the fire , cast it in , and waited until it was entirely consumed .
“ Yes , my son ; and he rendered very important services to your father .
* A sacerdotal officer .
“ Look out ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ I see black points and red points moving yonder .
“ Ay , but , ” said Aramis , “ that young fellow is decidedly a spy. ” “ Which is the young man ? ” asked De Winter , turning around .
The blow was parried .
He was safely sheltered , and yet he felt dizzy in the midst of the warring of the elements and the dazzling brightness of the lightning .
It is you who , with that mandate , obtained the pasha ’ s ring , which gave you authority over Selim , the fire-keeper !
Why do we love ?
I will be an abbé if it suits me .
“ The third , then , fell from the clouds , I suppose ? ” “ No , the third was brought to me this very morning by a groom out of livery , who would not tell me in whose service he was , and who said he had received orders from his master. ” “ Or his mistress , ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan .
“ Yes , ” said Milady , “ Lord de Winter ; and now you can understand it all , can you not ?
“ Luigi threw his cloak on the ground , placed his carbine on his shoulder , and freed from his heavy covering , preceded the traveller with the rapid step of a mountaineer , which a horse can scarcely keep up with .
He had no longer any doubts as to the nature of the conference ; he therefore quickly went to the gate in the clover-patch , prepared to hear the result of the proceedings , and very certain that Valentine would hasten to him the first moment she should be set at liberty .
For one day—listen , my son—one day , if you do so , they will doom you to destruction , head and crown , too , and then you will not be able to die with a calm conscience , as I die .
“ Why do you doubt ? ” “ The past—that obscurity on the past. ” “ But that does not affect the son. ” “ Very true. ” “ Now , I beg of you , don ’ t go off your head .
“ You are sure it is not he ? ” said she .
“ Do you not think , on reflection , ” said he to him , “ that you have done wrong in thus speaking of your mother-in-law in the presence of M. Debray ? ” “ My dear count , ” said Morcerf , “ I beg of you not to apply that title so prematurely. ” “ Now , speaking without any exaggeration , is your mother really so very much averse to this marriage ? ” “ So much so that the baroness very rarely comes to the house , and my mother , has not , I think , visited Madame Danglars twice in her whole life. ” “ Then , ” said the count , “ I am emboldened to speak openly to you .
“ Hem , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
I merely ask you , did you not refuse to go to Brussels for the queen , whilst you had consented to go there to do some service for the late cardinal ? ” “ That is the very reason I refused to go back to Brussels .
“ Bon jour , messieurs ! ” said the king to the two gentlemen who were held by D ’ Artagnan and Porthos .
Monte Cristo bowed , and went to Madame de Villefort .
Oh , my God !
“ Sir , ” he said , “ there is one window of the convent lighted up. ” “ Hem !
They descended into the plain by the ladder .
Aramis blushed .
Penelon nearly swallowed his quid ; fortunately he recovered .
Unfortunately the light had been removed into another chamber ; but the eyes of the young man were accustomed to the night .
was it not I ?
Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the entrance of the cave , formed by the reflection of the few rays of daylight which had found their way into this gloomy retreat .
“ Come , ” said Boville , with a tone of entire incredulity , “ five millions to that gentleman who just left , and who bowed to me as though he knew me ? ” “ Perhaps he knows you , though you do not know him ; M. de Monte Cristo knows everybody. ” “ Five millions ! ” “ Here is his receipt .
The whole population was on foot ; drums were beating in the streets and in the port ; the troops about to embark were marching toward the sea .
The major made a wise choice ; he took the full glass and a biscuit .
His prediction was nearly fulfilled , but in a very different way from that which De Bassompierre supposed ; for after the death of Richelieu everything went on , contrary to expectation , in the same way as before ; and Bassompierre had little chance of leaving his prison .
At the sight of Carlini , Cucumetto rose , a pistol in each hand .
“ All now , ” replied La Ramee .
Brunhilda and Fredegund were the results of the painful struggle of civilization in its infancy , when man was learning to control mind , were it even by an emissary from the realms of darkness .
to hold for five minutes—the gates , they will be torn down , twisted into iron wire , ground to powder !
my God !
He continued to press the raising of the famous dyke which was to starve La Rochelle .
He resumed his listening , but unfortunately the toilet was finished .
D ’ Artagnan seemed iron .
Therefore , in my opinion , my dear baron , the best and easiest way is to leave them to their fancies , and allow them to act as they please , and then , if any mischief follows , why , at least , they have no one to blame but themselves. ” Danglars made no reply ; he was occupied in anticipations of the coming scene between himself and the baroness , whose frowning brow , like that of Olympic Jove , predicted a storm .
I will beg him to turn his eyes now and then towards me , and if he keep his word and interest himself for me , in six months I shall be an officer , or dead .
“ You have understood me , then , dear Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said Milady .
Those were the count ’ s windows. ” “ Why , he must be a nabob .
Already Dantès had visited this maritime Bourse two or three times , and seeing all these hardy free-traders , who supplied the whole coast for nearly two hundred leagues in extent , he had asked himself what power might not that man attain who should give the impulse of his will to all these contrary and diverging minds .
You said , ‘ Let us die here ! ’ I recall to you that word. ” “ Oh , ” said Porthos , “ death is nothing : it isn ’ t death that can disquiet us , since we don ’ t know what it is .
She required to be alone that she might put her thoughts a little into order .
“ My friend , ” said he , “ here is a proof of it. ” 40176m Albert opened the paper , it was an attestation of four notable inhabitants of Yanina , proving that Colonel Fernand Mondego , in the service of Ali Tepelini , had surrendered the castle for two million crowns .
Are you not well ? ” “ ’ Tis nothing , nothing ; it will soon pass away ” —and as he said so the old man ’ s strength failed him , and he fell backwards .
“ Forgive me ! ” cried Edmond , blushing deeply .
I attach great importance to the question I am about to put to you .
Julie and Emmanuel have a thousand things to tell you .
“ Athos lend me Grimaud , who in the society of his friend Parry has perhaps picked up a little English , and can act as my interpreter. ” “ Go , Grimaud , ” said Athos .
Yes ; but in order to avenge herself she must be free .
In short , his whole appearance produced on the mind the impression of a corpse with living eyes , and nothing could be more startling than to observe the expression of anger or joy suddenly lighting up these organs , while the rest of the rigid and marble-like features were utterly deprived of the power of participation .
mon Dieu !
We were in the palace of Yanina ; she snatched me from the cushions on which I was sleeping , and on opening my eyes I saw hers filled with tears .
“ Yes , I have something of the highest importance to tell you. ” “ True , ” said he , “ and I have some questions sufficiently serious to put to you .
“ It is only the dead who do not return. ” “ You think so , Porthos ? ” replied the Musketeer , with a sad smile which D ’ Artagnan alone understood .
You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary , compressed , marked up , nonproprietary or proprietary form , including any word processing or hypertext form .
“ I come to you , my leader , my head , my father , and I ask you , master , are you contented with me ? ” Cromwell looked at him with astonishment .
“ Lackeys who have the order to warn their masters when anyone passes are not lackeys , they are sentinels. ” “ Your Eminence may perceive that if we had not taken this precaution , we should have been exposed to allowing you to pass without presenting you our respects or offering you our thanks for the favor you have done us in uniting us .
Keeping along the shore , and examining the smallest object with serious attention , he thought he could trace , on certain rocks , marks made by the hand of man .
you know there ’ s only one way of saying things , so I went in and said , ‘ My lord , we were not the strongest party. ’ “ ‘ Yes , I know that , ’ he said , ‘ but give me the particulars. ’ “ You know , Porthos , I could not give him the particulars without naming our friends ; to name them would be to commit them to ruin , so I merely said they were fifty and we were two .
I will restore you to liberty this moment ; I will proclaim you a piece of immaculate virtue ; I will name you the Lucretia of England. ’ “ ‘ And I will say that you are the Sextus .
D ’ Artagnan , not less forward than they , did likewise , and all ran out , in order to repair to their posts .
The two friends sat down to table ; but they could not refrain from remarking the difference between the Count of Monte Cristo ’ s table and that of Signor Pastrini .
“ To one in Edmond ’ s position the diamond certainly was of great value .
A burst of laughter resounded from the other side of the ill-closed door , and the door reopened .
I had a brother , an elder brother , who was in the service of the emperor ; he had become lieutenant in a regiment composed entirely of Corsicans .
“ Thank you , ” she said .
“ The Vendomois road , ” he replied .
Rest assured , we shall not see her. ” “ And you say that we are going from here to the Palais Royal ? ” “ Immediately .
“ Colonel Fairfax , ” repeated Bradshaw .
The stone had been brought with the evident intention of barricading the road , but some one having perceived the obstacle had partially turned it aside .
“ Here it is , ” said Athos ; and he took the invaluable paper from the pocket of his uniform .
In a creek lay a little sloop , with a narrow keel and high masts , bearing on its flag the Monte Cristo arms which were a mountain _or_ , on a sea _azure_ , with a cross _gules_ in chief which might be an allusion to his name that recalled Calvary , the mount rendered by our Lord ’ s passion more precious than gold , and to the degrading cross which his blood had rendered holy ; or it might be some personal remembrance of suffering and regeneration buried in the night of this mysterious personage ’ s past life .
The envoy presented his letter of introduction , which the latter read with English coolness , and having finished : “ I understand , ” said he , “ perfectly. ” 30293m Then began the questions , which were similar to those which had been addressed to the Abbé Busoni .
Valentine , as her only apology for not having met him , pointed to the corpse under the sheet , and began to sob again .
I can be useful in one way only—if knowledge of Parisian habits , of the means of rendering yourself comfortable , or of the bazaars , can assist , you may depend upon me to find you a fitting dwelling here .
“ Alas , sir , ” said he , “ I can not but perceive how sadly I miss the letter of introduction which my father gave me to present to you. ” “ I certainly am surprised , ” replied M. de Tréville , “ that you should undertake so long a journey without that necessary passport , the sole resource of us poor Béarnese. ” “ I had one , sir , and , thank God , such as I could wish , ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ but it was perfidiously stolen from me. ” He then related the adventure of Meung , described the unknown gentleman with the greatest minuteness , and all with a warmth and truthfulness that delighted M. de Tréville .
And then her thoughts , cleaving through space like a bird in the air , rested on Cavalcanti .
Tell me , then !
Go to the parliament , for it was from this parliament , the enemy of monarchs , that the daughter of the great , the sublime Henry IV. , whom you so much admire , received the only relief this winter which prevented her from dying of hunger and cold ! ” And with these words Henrietta rose in majestic indignation , whilst the cardinal , raising his hands clasped toward her , exclaimed , “ Ah , madame , madame , how little you know me , mon Dieu ! ” But Queen Henrietta , without even turning toward him who made these hypocritical pretensions , crossed the cabinet , opened the door for herself and passing through the midst of the cardinal ’ s numerous guards , courtiers eager to pay homage , the luxurious show of a competing royalty , she went and took the hand of De Winter , who stood apart in isolation .
It was the first time one of these visions had ever addressed her in a living voice , and she was about to utter an exclamation .
It does not concern me , you are right ; and if I have sworn to revenge myself , it is not on the French captain , or the Count of Morcerf , but on the fisherman Fernand , the husband of Mercédès the Catalane. ” “ Ah , sir ! ” cried the countess , “ how terrible a vengeance for a fault which fatality made me commit ! —for I am the only culprit , Edmond , and if you owe revenge to anyone , it is to me , who had not fortitude to bear your absence and my solitude. ” “ But , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo , “ why was I absent ?
“ Speak , ” said the queen .
“ Perhaps , ” said Athos ; “ But at all events listen well to this .
“ I have , however , already told you , sir , I was entirely ignorant of the contents of the letter. ” “ Yes ; but you knew the name of the person to whom it was addressed , ” said Villefort .
The baron came forward .
You have no idea , my dear fellow , how one acquires bad habits in these cursed convents , or what evil ways all these men of the church have , with whom I am obliged to live .
“ Did you see him ? ” they all asked .
As the count ’ s title sounded on his ear he rose , and addressing his colleagues , who were members of one or the other Chamber , he said : “ Gentlemen , pardon me for leaving you so abruptly ; but a most ridiculous circumstance has occurred , which is this , —Thomson & French , the Roman bankers , have sent to me a certain person calling himself the Count of Monte Cristo , and have given him an unlimited credit with me .
“ Yes .
“ At present , I confess , that is the thing I stand most in need of. ” Buckingham gave D ’ Artagnan a chamber adjoining his own .
Fortunately , as we have said , they were within a hundred paces of the city ; they left their two nags upon the high road , and ran toward the quay .
My poor brother was ignorant of this sentence .
Who are you ? ” “ Who are you ? ” said the voice .
And now , my dear Franz , let us talk of something else .
This man was the executioner .
If you require to know positively what she is capable of , read her past history on her left shoulder. ” “ Well , now that will do wonderfully well , ” said Athos .
“ Well , he of whom I speak is the lord and master of this grain of sand , of this atom ; he has purchased the title of count somewhere in Tuscany. ” “ He is rich , then ? ” “ I believe so. ” “ But that ought to be visible. ” “ That is what deceives you , Debray. ” “ I do not understand you. ” “ Have you read the _Arabian Nights_ ? ” “ What a question ! ” “ Well , do you know if the persons you see there are rich or poor , if their sacks of wheat are not rubies or diamonds ?
If victorious , I shall continue the struggle ; if beaten , I am lost .
“ Really , ” said the major , “ I am quite ashamed of the trouble I am giving you. ” “ Pray don ’ t mention such a thing , ” said the count .
“ Yes , Raoul , ” replied the count .
“ Stand aside ! ” he cried ; “ stand off the road ! ” “ What do you want ? ” asked a voice .
“ In two hours ’ time , ” said he , “ these persons will depart richer by fifty piastres each , to go and risk their lives again by endeavoring to gain fifty more ; then they will return with a fortune of six hundred francs , and waste this treasure in some city with the pride of sultans and the insolence of nabobs .
This was more than his life , the life of the woman he loved ; this was , in case of ill fortune , a means of temporizing and obtaining good conditions .
Noirtier was near the bed , pale , motionless , and silent as the corpse .
I know no better means than to act with candor .
I approached him , and said in a low voice , ‘ Well , since you know the Corsicans so well , you know that they always keep their word .
It seemed to me as if you were yourself preparing for some dangerous undertaking , about which I did not dare to question you , since you told me nothing .
The Foundation ’ s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West , Salt Lake City , UT 84116 , ( 801 ) 596-1887 .
“ Yes , it is I , my uncle—I , the son of Milady—I , the monk—I , the secretary and friend of Cromwell—I know you now , both you and your companions. ” In that boat sat three men , unquestionably brave , whose courage no man would have dared dispute ; nevertheless , at that voice , that accent and those gestures , they felt a chill access of terror cramp their veins .
No ; I hope that when he sees me leave you , he will come out. ” “ That is possible—go. ” “ I am going , ” said Albert , as he made his parting bow .
M. de Villefort had on the right hand Madame Danglars , on his left Morrel .
The latter made a sign , and when the carriages had drawn close together , said : “ You are going to Madame de Morcerf ’ s , are you not ? ” “ No , ” replied Madame Danglars , “ I am too ill. ” “ You are wrong , ” replied Villefort , significantly ; “ it is important that you should be seen there. ” “ Do you think so ? ” asked the baroness .
“ No , monseigneur .
The little hand was then immediately withdrawn , and the young man saw Valentine hurrying towards the house , as though she were almost terrified at her own sensations .
“ I know what I wish to know ; follow me. ” The three Musketeers passed behind his Eminence , who again enveloped his face in his cloak , and put his horse in motion , keeping from eight to ten paces in advance of his four companions .
This was a useless clause in the bargain , for whenever the coward sees the first glimpse of the shores of Africa , he runs down below , and can only be induced to appear again when we are out of sight of that quarter of the globe. ” Franz remained a moment silent and pensive , hardly knowing what to think of the half-kindness , half-cruelty , with which his host related the brief narrative .
He went on his way .
Monsieur du Tremblay received D ’ Artagnan with extreme politeness and invited him to sit down with him to supper , of which he was himself about to partake .
come instantly , pray come ! ” “ Madame , madame ! ” cried Valentine , calling her step-mother , and running upstairs to meet her ; “ come quick , quick ! —and bring your bottle of smelling-salts with you. ” “ What is the matter ? ” said Madame de Villefort in a harsh and constrained tone .
Somebody , he perceived , was in the courtyard , moving stealthily .
Contrary to custom , the door was open , and having no occasion to ring he entered .
Père Pamphile had seen Dantès pass not ten minutes before ; and assured that he was at the Catalans , they sat down under the budding foliage of the planes and sycamores , in the branches of which the birds were singing their welcome to one of the first days of spring .
Mordaunt , one of my secretaries , will remit this letter of introduction to His Eminence , the Cardinal Mazarin , in Paris .
You will excite your blood , and that would produce an appetite it would require a million a day to satisfy .
Come with us to Marseilles—come along. ” “ I will not. ” “ What do you mean ?
“ Well , upon my honor , ” said Athos , “ your Eminence is right in taking us with you ; we have seen several ill-looking faces on the road , and we have even had a quarrel at the Red Dovecot with four of those faces. ” “ A quarrel , and what for , gentlemen ? ” said the cardinal ; “ you know I don ’ t like quarrelers. ” “ And that is the reason why I have the honor to inform your Eminence of what has happened ; for you might learn it from others , and upon a false account believe us to be in fault. ” “ What have been the results of your quarrel ? ” said the cardinal , knitting his brow .
Email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the Foundation ’ s website and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact Section 4 .
“ What are you thinking about ? ” said the king ; “ go on , my good Parry , unless you are tired. ” Parry resumed his reading .
“ Oh , death , death ! ” said she , lowering her voice and her eyelids , “ oh , death , rather than shame !
I seemed everywhere to hear your moans behind me in the bed , and I dared not turn around .
Our blow has failed for to-night ; let us withdraw .
I see , my lord , I shall be obliged to fetch a second Grimaud ! ” “ Very well , let us say no more about it .
Would to heaven !
Once taken , they will be pressed ; when pressed , they will confess everything .
Who knows ?
“ He was wealthy once , perhaps ? ” said the inspector .
“ Never mind—in the meantime he marries Mercédès—the lovely Mercédès—at least he returns to do that. ” During this time Danglars fixed his piercing glance on the young man , on whose heart Caderousse ’ s words fell like molten lead .
“ But—formerly—it appears , ” began Mousqueton timidly .
“ The count will find there a charming hotel , with a court and garden. ” “ Bah !
“ Yes , Ali himself , my Nubian mute , whom you saw , I think , at Rome. ” “ Certainly , ” said Morcerf ; “ I recollect him perfectly .
Bonacieux , “ so much happiness is not in store for me ! ” “ Then you comprehend it would be only a question of time , a sort of race , which should arrive first .
Then she broke the silence to cry out , “ You are cowards , miserable assassins—ten men combined to murder one woman .
Nature , according to her way , had made no deviation in the path he had marked out for himself .
She was an angel on earth before being an angel in heaven .
Paternal Affection .
“ ‘ Another of the number , ’ ” continued the abbé , without seeming to notice the emotion of Caderousse , “ ‘ is called Danglars ; and the third , in spite of being my rival , entertained a very sincere affection for me. ’ ” A fiendish smile played over the features of Caderousse , who was about to break in upon the abbé ’ s speech , when the latter , waving his hand , said , “ Allow me to finish first , and then if you have any observations to make , you can do so afterwards .
“ He went to desire you to come to the palace .
“ Some straw , ” they said .
“ Héloïse ! ” he cried .
In the name of the queen I forbid you to throw yourself into any peril which is foreign to that of your journey. ” “ And do you command nothing in your own name ? ” “ In my name , ” said Mme .
Franz complimented Albert , who looked at himself in the glass with an unequivocal smile of satisfaction .
Ah , the young rascal—stealing in a garden—he does not know where that may lead him to. ” “ Certainly , it is wrong , ” said Monte Cristo , “ but you should take into consideration the youth and greediness of the delinquent. ” “ Of course , ” said the gardener , “ but that does not make it the less unpleasant .
He is—— ” He would have added “ Edmond Dantès , ” but the count seized his arm and prevented him .
A parliamentary officer , clothed in black and with a gravity that augured ill , entered , bowed to the king , and unfolding a parchment , read the sentence , as is usually done to criminals before their execution .
The old man , wrapped in a large black doublet , in which the whole of his slender body was concealed , was brisk and dry .
Fernand ’ s fortune was already waxing great , and she developed with his growing fortune .
“ The part of an honest man , full of courage and real regard .
His hand placed upon his heart was unable to redress its throbbings , while , with the other he wiped the perspiration from his temples .
They went to find Porthos , and at the corner of the Rue Bac met Mousqueton , who , with a most pitiable air , was driving before him a mule and a horse .
“ Finish , Mouston , finish the work ! ” cried Porthos .
“ The battle of Lens gained ! ” said the queen ; “ they are lucky here indeed ; they can gain battles !
Think of the eighty thousand applauding spectators , the sage matrons who took their daughters , and the charming Vestals who made with the thumb of their white hands the fatal sign that said , ‘ Come , despatch the dying. ’ ” “ Shall you go , then , Albert ? ” asked Franz .
“ Since I was a faithful servant , my lord , to Cardinal Richelieu during his life , it stands to reason that now , after his death , I should serve you well , in defiance of the whole world. ” “ With regard to myself , Monsieur de Rochefort , ” replied Mazarin , “ I am not , like Monsieur de Richelieu , all-powerful .
In the courtyard the carriage and the four musketeers were ready , but he looked around in vain for his friend .
Who wrote for particulars concerning my father ? ” “ I imagine anyone may write to Yanina. ” “ But one person only wrote ! ” “ One only ? ” “ Yes ; and that was you ! ” “ I , doubtless , wrote .
Suppose you knew beforehand the poison that would be made use of against you ; suppose the poison was , for instance , brucine—— ” “ Brucine is extracted from the false angostura8 is it not ? ” inquired Madame de Villefort .
And he conducted them to Mousqueton , who freely distributed the trusses at the rate of a louis apiece .
madame , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ you must not ask of us , the manufacturers of fine porcelain , such a question .
“ I believe that not a stone in Paris will remain unturned , ” put in the marechal .
Woe to them if it be so ! ” And he turned around , so stern with anger , strength and threat , that the most excited rebels hustled back on one another , in order to escape , and some of them even rolled into the Seine .
At one of these encounters , accidentally or purposely , Albert ’ s mask fell off .
“ Sir , ” she said to Morcerf , “ you are most welcome as the friend of my lord and master. ” This was said in excellent Tuscan , and with that soft Roman accent which makes the language of Dante as sonorous as that of Homer .
If it be so , we trust your Eminence will deign to explain yourself , and we should then at least be acquainted with our real position. ” “ And if it were an interrogatory ! ” replied the cardinal .
People might employ themselves in a family affair before all the world .
“ It is very fortunate , ” she observed , “ that such substances could only be prepared by chemists ; otherwise , all the world would be poisoning each other. ” “ By chemists and persons who have a taste for chemistry , ” said Monte Cristo carelessly .
Gondy continued his way and went as far as the Tour de Nesle .
A few words he let fall showed them that he was no stranger to the sciences , and he seemed much occupied with chemistry .
The next day , in fact , at daybreak , the court made preparations to quit Saint Germain .
Prepare yourself , then , to start at once. ” “ And by whom is this order given ? ” asked the king .
It was just in time , for Valentine ’ s head swam , and she staggered ; Madame de Villefort instantly hastened to her assistance , and aided her husband in dragging her to the carriage , saying : “ What a singular event !
He darted a preparatory glance at Athos and Aramis , who slyly pushed their chairs a little back so as to leave themselves more space for action .
The fog increased the darkness , and formed round the sternlights and lanterns of the jetty a circle like that which surrounds the moon when the weather threatens to become rainy .
50049m At one time he thought he was saved , for he heard the brigadier exclaim in a loud voice , to the two gendarmes , “ He is not here ! ” But venturing to peep , he perceived that the latter , instead of retiring , as might have been reasonably expected upon this announcement , were watching with increased attention .
If you mean as responsible agent when you ask me the question , I believe there is nothing to say against him , and that you will be content with the way in which he has performed his duty. ” “ But tell me , Dantès , if you had command of the _Pharaon_ should you be glad to see Danglars remain ? ” “ Captain or mate , M. Morrel , I shall always have the greatest respect for those who possess the owners ’ confidence. ” “ That ’ s right , that ’ s right , Dantès !
“ There ’ s what you want on that table , ” said the waiter .
You are welcome , gentlemen , ” she said .
and who cares now about Yanina , which was taken as long ago as the year 1822 or 1823 ? ” “ That just shows the meanness of this slander .
Mordaunt , ” said the cardinal , raising his voice , as if to arouse the dreamer , “ my reply to this letter will be more satisfactory to General Cromwell if I am convinced that all are ignorant of my having given one ; go , therefore , and await it at Boulogne-sur-Mer , and promise me to set out to-morrow morning. ” “ I promise , my lord , ” replied Mordaunt ; “ but how many days does your eminence expect me to await your reply ? ” “ If you do not receive it in ten days you can leave. ” Mordaunt bowed .
I understand why you accepted it , and I grant you my pardon ; but upon one condition. ” “ What is that ? ” said the soldier , uneasy at perceiving that all was not over .
At last D ’ Artagnan thought it was time to try one of his favorite feints in fencing .
“ But you said that your name was D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Who , I ? ” “ Yes , you. ” “ Somebody said to me , ‘ You are Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ’ I answered , ‘ You think so ? ’ My guards exclaimed that they were sure of it .
This tranquillity proved one thing—that D ’ Artagnan did not yet know Milady .
THE COUNTESS DE WINTER Chapter XXII .
Well , happily , I don ’ t say nay to it .
Selim had also recognized him , but the brave young man only acknowledged one duty , which was to obey .
Rather , place faith in what I tell you .
A dungeon !
There , disguised under other names , and concealed under other costumes , are police agents , magistrates , attorneys-general , and bailiffs .
I could make of that subject two volumes the size of this , ” continued the Jesuit ; and in his enthusiasm he struck a St. Chrysostom in folio , which made the table bend beneath its weight .
Why should I obtain you by violence , if our love is mutual ?
“ And should any misfortune occur to you , dear Edmond , ” she continued with the same calmness which proved to Fernand that the young girl had read the very innermost depths of his sinister thought , “ if misfortune should occur to you , I would ascend the highest point of the Cape de Morgiou and cast myself headlong from it. ” Fernand became deadly pale .
we shall have our revenge .
With the first dawn of day the jailer returned , with orders to leave Dantès where he was .
“ See , ” said the count , “ how very ungrateful women are .
My position is like that of a person wounded in a dream ; he feels the wound , though he can not recollect when he received it .
The old man returned alone to his home , folded up his wedding suit with tears in his eyes , and paced up and down his chamber the whole day , and would not go to bed at all , for I was underneath him and heard him walking the whole night ; and for myself , I assure you I could not sleep either , for the grief of the poor father gave me great uneasiness , and every step he took went to my heart as really as if his foot had pressed against my breast .
Make free , now you have begun. ” “ No ; you are , after all , a good companion ; I will not detain you , and will try to cure myself of my ambition. ” “ But take care the same thing does not happen to you in selling the diamond you feared with the gold. ” “ I shall not sell it—do not fear. ” “ Not at least till the day after tomorrow , ” thought the young man .
Athos , in his hours of gloom—and these hours were frequent—was extinguished as to the whole of the luminous portion of him , and his brilliant side disappeared as into profound darkness .
Nevertheless , whether the passengers were really touched by the urbanity of Planchet or whether this time nobody was posted on the young man ’ s road , our two travelers arrived at Chantilly without any accident , and alighted at the tavern of Great St. Martin , the same at which they had stopped on their first journey .
Let us get ready , gentlemen. ” “ But this second letter , ” said Athos , “ you forget that ; it appears to me , however , that the seal denotes that it deserves to be opened .
Felton was indeed behind the door , and had not lost one word of this scene .
The morning was beautiful , and in this early springtime the birds sang on the trees and the sunbeams shone through the misty glades , like curtains of golden gauze .
I have heard here and there that this sister-in-law was a hussy .
He was about at last to pass that mysterious threshold , to climb those unknown stairs by which , one by one , the old crowns of M. Coquenard had ascended .
Nevertheless , isolated as he was , we must say that the Duke of Buckingham did not experience an instant of fear .
Dantès could thus keep his eyes on Marseilles .
Bonacieux .
“ What are you meddling with , stupid ?
The Villefort Family Vault Two days after , a considerable crowd was assembled , towards ten o ’ clock in the morning , around the door of M. de Villefort ’ s house , and a long file of mourning-coaches and private carriages extended along the Faubourg Saint-Honoré and the Rue de la Pépinière .
I gave her good advice , by which she did not profit .
A murder ?
Fearing , however , to make use of any valuable piece of paper , I hesitated for a moment , then recollected that I had seen in the famous breviary , which was on the table beside me , an old paper quite yellow with age , and which had served as a marker for centuries , kept there by the request of the heirs .
I was to have been presented to her when I met her at Madame Villefort ’ s ball. ” “ Shall I assist you in repairing your negligence ? ” asked Franz .
It ’ s little enough. ” “ But so it is. ” “ No , it can not be ! ” “ Are you my friend , Caderousse ? ” “ Yes , in life or death. ” “ Well , I will tell you a secret. ” “ What is it ? ” “ But remember—— ” “ Ah !
The _moccoletto_ is like life : man has found but one means of transmitting it , and that one comes from God .
I have been looking for him , but without success. ” “ He will be here tonight. ” “ In what part of the house ? ” “ In the baroness ’ s box , I believe. ” “ That charming young woman with her is her daughter ? ” “ Yes. ” “ I congratulate you. ” Morcerf smiled .
it depends on you only. ” “ I listen—I am waiting to hear. ” “ Sir , the favor I have to ask of you is , not to call me ‘ Mousqueton ’ but ‘ Mouston. ’ Since I have had the honor of being my lord ’ s steward I have taken the last name as more dignified and calculated to make my inferiors respect me .
“ There are ten men to accompany you .
It was even told me that Fernand , especially , was terrible in his vengeance. ” Fernand smiled piteously .
Do you wish a step , or some place in the government ? ” “ Sir , will you grant me my request ? ” “ Let us hear what it is , first. ” “ Sir , when you have told me to obey an order did I ever answer , ‘ Let me see that order ’ ? ” “ If , however , your wish should be one impossible to fulfill ? ” “ When you have cherished a wish and have charged me with its fulfillment , have I ever replied , ‘ It is impossible ’ ? ” “ But a request preferred with so much preparation—— ” “ Ah , do not fear , sir , ” said Mordaunt , with apparent simplicity : “ it will not ruin you. ” “ Well , then , ” said Cromwell , “ I promise , as far as lies in my power , to grant your request ; proceed. ” “ Sir , two prisoners were taken this morning , will you let me have them ? ” “ For their ransom ?
The Count of Morcerf alone was ignorant of the news .
The court of his hôtel , situated in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier , resembled a camp from by six o ’ clock in the morning in summer and eight o ’ clock in winter .
It was a continual scratching , as if made by a huge claw , a powerful tooth , or some iron instrument attacking the stones .
“ You know about that ? ” cried Athos , astonished .
Meanwhile , Villefort and d ’ Avrigny had made all possible haste , Valentine had not revived from her fainting fit on their arrival , and the doctor examined the invalid with all the care the circumstances demanded , and with an interest which the knowledge of the secret intensified twofold .
They directed their horses to the city .
Bertuccio ’ s forehead was covered with perspiration ; however , he obeyed , and , leaning out of the window , he cried to the coachman , — “ Rue de la Fontaine , No .
The queen , on whom he threw himself as sole support , seemed to him now not much to be relied upon .
But , at all events , I gave him absolution in articulo mortis .
“ But why have two of each sort ? ” asked Danglars .
He fancied , also , that in going he had already observed the street watcher who had attracted his attention .
“ Gentlemen , ” said the count , seating himself , “ permit me to make a confession which must form my excuse for any improprieties I may commit .
The regiments , the standards , and even the colors of the horses and uniforms were now clearly distinct .
you think so , do you ? ” And he took his friend along the alley , where a number of tracks like those which had trampled down the flowerbeds , were visible .
50195m He descended the little staircase with which we are acquainted , and entered Noirtier ’ s room .
Every one was impatient , La Ramee to sit down to table , the guards to go and drink , the duke to escape .
I have had ten or twelve sailors under me , and if you question them , they will tell you that they love and respect me , not as a father , for I am too young , but as an elder brother. ” “ But you may have excited jealousy .
I am come to talk to you about a thousand things ; but , first tell me , were you going out or just returned ? ” “ I was going out , sir. ” “ Then , in order not to hinder you , I will get up with you if you please in your carriage , and Tom shall follow with my phaeton in tow. ” “ No , ” said the count , with an imperceptible smile of contempt , for he had no wish to be seen in the young man ’ s society , — “ no ; I prefer listening to you here , my dear M. Andrea ; we can chat better in-doors , and there is no coachman to overhear our conversation. ” The count returned to a small drawing-room on the first floor , sat down , and crossing his legs motioned to the young man to take a seat also .
Coquenard , they arose slowly from the table , folded their napkins more slowly still , bowed , and retired .
I would arrest ten of them , _ventrebleu_ , a hundred , even , all the company , and I would not allow a whisper. ” “ From the moment they are suspected by your Majesty , ” said Tréville , “ the Musketeers are guilty ; therefore , you see me prepared to surrender my sword—for after having accused my soldiers , there can be no doubt that Monsieur the Cardinal will end by accusing me .
“ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ M .
“ What ? ” said he to himself , while the lamp and the wax lights were nearly burnt out , and the servants were waiting impatiently in the anteroom ; “ what ?
The queen smiled , but instead of answering : “ See , De Winter , ” she said , “ I have at least gained one thing in being only half a queen ; and that is that my children call me ‘ mother ’ instead of ‘ madame. ’ ” Then turning toward her daughter : “ What do you want , Henrietta ? ” she demanded .
1.F .
“ Well , what do you wish me to do for you ? ” said Beauchamp mildly .
Then all the members looked at each other with terror .
“ Hold out your hand and swear ! ” cried Athos and Aramis at once .
—Constancy and Discretion. ” “ Well , ” asked he , when Franz had finished , “ what do you think of that ? ” “ I think that the adventure is assuming a very agreeable appearance. ” “ I think so , also , ” replied Albert ; “ and I very much fear you will go alone to the Duke of Bracciano ’ s ball. ” Franz and Albert had received that morning an invitation from the celebrated Roman banker .
I am brother to Parry , his majesty ’ s lackey. ” Athos and Aramis remembered that this was the name by which De Winter had called the man they had found in the passage of the king ’ s tent .
Athos fancied he had seen him among the crowd .
“ Sir , ” said Madame de Saint-Méran , without using any circumlocution , and as if fearing she had no time to lose , “ you wrote to me concerning the marriage of this child ? ” “ Yes , madame , ” replied Villefort , “ it is not only projected but arranged. ” “ Your intended son-in-law is named M. Franz d ’ Épinay ? ” “ Yes , madame. ” “ Is he not the son of General d ’ Épinay who was on our side , and who was assassinated some days before the usurper returned from the Island of Elba ? ” “ The same. ” “ Does he not dislike the idea of marrying the granddaughter of a Jacobin ? ” “ Our civil dissensions are now happily extinguished , mother , ” said Villefort ; “ M .
All this is very strange ; and I am curious to know how it will end. ” “ Badly , monsieur , badly ! ” replied a voice which the young man recognized as that of Planchet ; for , soliloquizing aloud , as very preoccupied people do , he had entered the alley , at the end of which were the stairs which led to his chamber .
It ’ s tiresome work to keep awake a whole night. ” “ Yes , but with a jovial partner and dice , and guineas clinking on the cloth , the night passes like a dream .
“ Hey , yes , thank God , I am pretty well , ” said Mousqueton .
But his majesty ’ s decision is always necessary ; and I inform you with regret that no one becomes a Musketeer without the preliminary ordeal of several campaigns , certain brilliant actions , or a service of two years in some other regiment less favored than ours. ” D ’ Artagnan bowed without replying , feeling his desire to don the Musketeer ’ s uniform vastly increased by the great difficulties which preceded the attainment of it .
He turned toward the wounded man , who had watched with intense anxiety all the various expressions of his countenance , and holding out his arm to him , said , “ Come , I will not abandon you thus .
I set off for France , after having fixed upon the plan .
Athos listened to him without a frown ; and when he had finished , said , “ Trifles , only trifles ! ” That was his favorite word .
“ Well , my dear friend , let us approach the window and there you can match your strength against that of an iron bar. ” Porthos went to the window , took a bar in his hands , clung to it and bent it like a bow ; so that the two ends came out of the sockets of stone in which for thirty years they had been fixed .
“ But first , ” said Morrel , “ allow me , sir , to tell you who I am , how much I love Mademoiselle Valentine , and what are my designs respecting her. ” Noirtier made a sign that he would listen .
I , the offspring of a noble family , who placed reliance upon your friendship—I was near dying of my wounds at first , and of hunger afterward , in a beggarly inn at Chantilly , without you ever deigning once to reply to the burning letters I addressed to you. ” “ But , Monsieur Porthos , ” murmured the procurator ’ s wife , who began to feel that , to judge by the conduct of the great ladies of the time , she was wrong .
What will that cost you my dear Monsieur Mordaunt ? ” “ Yes , the written order , ” said Porthos , who now began to comprehend what D ’ Artagnan was aiming at , “ we ask only for that. ” However inclined Mordaunt was to have recourse to violence , he understood the reasons D ’ Artagnan had given him ; besides , completely ignorant of the friendship which existed between the four Frenchmen , all his uneasiness disappeared when he heard of the plausible motive of the ransom .
On arriving at the Rue des Prouvaires , the curate pointed toward the square before the church .
“ Will your excellency give your name , or remain _incognito_ ? ” asked the captain .
It struck me as very odd that a princess should live in the Rue aux Ours. ” * Attorney “ But how do you know all this ? ” “ Because she flew into a great passion on receiving the letter , saying that Monsieur Porthos was a weathercock , and that she was sure it was for some woman he had received this wound. ” “ Has he been wounded , then ? ” “ Oh , good Lord !
D ’ Artagnan shuddered at the noise of the keys ; he remained on horseback , feeling no inclination to dismount , and sat looking at the bars , at the buttressed windows and the immense walls he had hitherto only seen from the other side of the moat , but by which he had for twenty years been awe-struck .
“ A magnificent cavalier , ” remarked Mazarin .
“ Yes , indeed , count , ” said Madame Danglars ; “ and tell me , did you ever see at the court of Ali Tepelini , whom you so gloriously and valiantly served , a more exquisite beauty or richer costume ? ” “ Did I hear rightly , monsieur , ” said Monte Cristo “ that you served at Yanina ? ” “ I was inspector-general of the pasha ’ s troops , ” replied Morcerf ; “ and it is no secret that I owe my fortune , such as it is , to the liberality of the illustrious Albanese chief. ” “ But look ! ” exclaimed Madame Danglars .
“ And now , where is he gone ? ” inquired D ’ Artagnan .
Why ? ” “ Just remember what they said .
The blow was sped by D ’ Artagnan ; the rapier had pierced his bosom .
The cardinal has said several things which have agitated me , therefore I will not speak more fully now .
The natural messengers of the bandits are the shepherds who live between the city and the mountains , between civilized and savage life .
Good-by !
Let me look for this letter ; it must be with my title deeds. ” D ’ Artagnan opened an old casket which stood in a corner of the room , and which was full of parchments referring to an estate during a period of two hundred years lost to his family .
[ 12 ] Jacques-Louis David , a famous French painter ( 1748-1825 ) .
Now , is that all ? ” “ I believe so. ” “ Let us see : Buckingham dead or grievously wounded ; your conversation with the cardinal overheard by the four Musketeers ; Lord de Winter warned of your arrival at Portsmouth ; D ’ Artagnan and Athos to the Bastille ; Aramis the lover of Madame de Chevreuse ; Porthos an ass ; Madame Bonacieux found again ; to send you the chaise as soon as possible ; to place my lackey at your disposal ; to make you out a victim of the cardinal in order that the abbess may entertain no suspicion ; Armentières , on the banks of the Lys .
The Avenger .
Now , by way of having a resting-place during his excursions , avoiding the wretched cookery—which has been trying its best to poison me during the last four months , while you have manfully resisted its effects for as many years , —and obtaining a bed on which it is possible to slumber , Monte Cristo has furnished for himself a temporary abode where you first found him ; but , to prevent the possibility of the Tuscan government taking a fancy to his enchanted palace , and thereby depriving him of the advantages naturally expected from so large an outlay of capital , he has wisely enough purchased the island , and taken its name .
“ From Congo , if you will. ” “ It must be farther off than even that. ” “ But what do I know of your Parisian husbands ? ” “ Oh , my dear count , husbands are pretty much the same everywhere ; an individual husband of any country is a pretty fair specimen of the whole race. ” “ But then , what can have led to the quarrel between Danglars and Debray ?
If I strike with the sword , or discharge the contents of a pistol at man with whom , for three years , I have been on terms of intimacy , I must , at least , know why I do so ; I must meet him with a heart at ease , and that quiet conscience which a man needs when his own arm must save his life. ” “ Well , ” said Morcerf , impatiently , “ what does all this mean ? ” “ It means that I have just returned from Yanina. ” “ From Yanina ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ Here is my passport ; examine the visa—Geneva , Milan , Venice , Trieste , Delvino , Yanina .
The young man turned quickly round , for this attack could not have come from the bastion , which was hidden by the angle of the trench .
“ It seems to me , however , ” said Mazarin , “ the safest method. ” “ Yes , for you , my lord , but not for the queen ; you must leave it to me and give me the entire direction of the undertaking. ” “ Nevertheless—— ” “ Or find some one else , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , turning his back .
Are you likely to be more humane to me than others were yesterday ?
The man he addressed recoiled with terror , and only answered the few words of the Musketeer by pointing .
D ’ Artagnan knelt down near the thickest part of the hedge .
Supper was eaten in silence , but not in sadness ; for from time to time one of those sweet smiles which were habitual to him in moments of good-humor illumined the face of D ’ Artagnan .
“ Or a tiger ? ” Ali bowed his head in token of assent .
Besides , are you not as anxious to learn news of Grimaud , Mousqueton , and Bazin as I am to know what has become of Athos , Porthos , and Aramis ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” said Planchet , “ and I will go as soon as you please .
“ But I—but I , ” cried Olivain , pale and disconsolate rushing about on the shore , “ how shall I cross ? ” “ Leap , coward ! ” cried Raoul , swimming on ; then addressing the traveler , who was struggling twenty yards in front of him : “ Courage , sir ! ” said he , “ courage !
Felton , as pale as death , remained some instants with his ear bent and listening ; then , when the sound was quite extinct , he breathed like a man awaking from a dream , and rushed out of the apartment .
Then , when we asked them what were their intentions , the master replied that he had forty charges to fire , and that he and his lackey would fire to the last one before he would allow a single soul of us to set foot in the cellar .
A day or two of rest will set me up , and I hope I shall find among the rocks certain herbs most excellent for bruises. ” A peculiar smile passed over Dantès ’ lips ; he squeezed Jacopo ’ s hand warmly , but nothing could shake his determination to remain—and remain alone .
“ Well ? ” said the cardinal , eagerly , rising with a promptitude which proved the degree of importance he attached to the commission with which he had charged the count .
run for help ! ” cried Grimaud , “ and I will remain beside him here. ” The host quitted the room in agitation , and as for his wife , she had fled at the sound of her husband ’ s cries .
“ Ah !
“ I shall pass all my life , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ in seeking for a man who is really contented with his lot. ” Whilst making this reflection , chance seemed , as it were , to give him the lie direct .
And now , ” continued he , with one of his most charming smiles , “ having finished talking to the father-in-law , I must address myself to the banker. ” “ And what may you have to say to him ? ” said Danglars , laughing in his turn .
“ The devil ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan .
I retained my harness by instinct .
Monsieur du Vallon and myself came from France with him. ” “ It appears , too , you kept him waiting a long time at Boulogne. ” “ What would you have ?
You shall want for nothing , and if you let yourself die of hunger that will be your own fault. ’ “ At these words he retired .
She has met Mademoiselle de Villefort , and has taken her arm ; see , they are following us , both in white dresses , one with a bouquet of camellias , the other with one of myosotis .
At a hundred steps , on turning to the left , you will find the wall of the park ; get over it , and in three leaps you will be on the road and free. ” “ Ah !
“ Friend , ” he said , “ you have been too good in pardoning me ; I was wrong , a hundred times wrong .
He found himself face to face with a sergeant commanding a watch-patrol .
Then noticing in the dim light the still youthful and veiled figure of Madame de Morcerf : “ Pardon me , ” he added with a smile , “ I leave you , Albert. ” Albert understood his thoughts .
If , on the contrary , I die , remember , Maximilian , my corpse is that of an honest but unfortunate man .
Come , come. ” “ Where ? ” “ Either to seek the Duc de Beaufort or the Duc de Bouillon , and to tell them about this. ” “ Yes , but on one condition—that we begin by the coadjutor .
“ I never go there. ” “ Why , what in the world , ” cried Aramis , “ is that animal Bazin doing ?
“ What is it ? ” said Monte Cristo .
For three days he watered this cabbage with a distillation of arsenic ; on the third , the cabbage began to droop and turn yellow .
On their side , the three Musketeers were much attached to their young comrade .
“ Viscount , ” said Athos to Raoul , as he entered , “ you will conduct my lord as far as his hotel and permit no one to approach him. ” “ Oh !
Between honest men such excessive precaution is , I think , quite unnecessary. ” “ Yes , so it is , between perfectly upright people. ” “ One word more , ” said Monte Cristo .
I reasoned thus—money , time , and fatigue are nothing compared with the reputation and interests of a whole family ; probabilities will not suffice , only facts will justify a deadly combat with a friend .
Besides , D ’ Artagnan was but twenty years old , and consequently had not yet forgotten his schoolboy habits .
Be more economical. ” “ But when I have no more money left to pay you ? ” asked the infuriated Danglars .
“ _Scendi ! _ ” exclaimed a commanding voice .
As Villefort observes , it is a great act of folly to have left such a man between Corsica , where he was born , and Naples , of which his brother-in-law is king , and face to face with Italy , the sovereignty of which he coveted for his son. ” “ Unfortunately , ” said Villefort , “ there are the treaties of 1814 , and we can not molest Napoleon without breaking those compacts. ” “ Oh , well , we shall find some way out of it , ” responded M. de Salvieux .
In vain did Franz endeavor to forget the many perplexing thoughts which assailed him ; in vain did he court the refreshment of sleep .
It was delightful weather .
Where is the letter you speak of ?
d ’ Épinay was quite a child when his father died , he knows very little of M. Noirtier , and will meet him , if not with pleasure , at least with indifference. ” “ Is it a suitable match ? ” “ In every respect. ” “ And the young man ? ” “ Is regarded with universal esteem. ” “ You approve of him ? ” “ He is one of the most well-bred young men I know. ” During the whole of this conversation Valentine had remained silent .
It is true that the habit of a huntress became her admirably .
3 was engaged by a young man who was travelling with his sister .
The abbess introduced them to each other .
“ Yet the great sometimes repent of their ingratitude. ” “ In that case it would be quite another thing .
D ’ Artagnan ground his teeth .
“ How can you find out ? ” “ You shall see. ” Gaetano consulted with his companions , and after five minutes ’ discussion a manœuvre was executed which caused the vessel to tack about , they returned the way they had come , and in a few minutes the fire disappeared , hidden by an elevation of the land .
I have promised to remain forever with you , and now I could not break my promise if I would .
No nonsense , my good fellow ; silver simply , round coins with the head of some monarch or other on them .
He had only found the first grotto ; he had now to seek the second .
“ Then that is agreed , ” said the king , “ and that is all I had to say to you. ” “ But on what day will this ball take place ? ” asked Anne of Austria .
“ No , monsieur , it is impossible ; I can go no farther. ” “ What does this mean ? ” demanded the irresistible voice of Monte Cristo .
Do you know that his Eminence has been making fresh complaints against your Musketeers , and that with so much emotion , that this evening his Eminence is indisposed ?
He would fain have gazed upon his gold , and yet he had not strength enough ; for an instant he leaned his head in his hands as if to prevent his senses from leaving him , and then rushed madly about the rocks of Monte Cristo , terrifying the wild goats and scaring the sea-fowls with his wild cries and gestures ; then he returned , and , still unable to believe the evidence of his senses , rushed into the grotto , and found himself before this mine of gold and jewels .
TRIAL It was a stormy and dark night ; vast clouds covered the heavens , concealing the stars ; the moon would not rise till midnight .
Still further , Buckingham announced to the mayor that at length the great league was about to declare itself against France , and that the kingdom would be at once invaded by the English , Imperial , and Spanish armies .
that is another thing , ” said Porthos .
It led into the park , as the three fugitives perceived by the night breeze which rushed into the corridor and blew the wind into their faces .
Aramis pleaded as his excuse a commentary upon the eighteenth chapter of St. Augustine , which he was forced to write in Latin for the following week , and which preoccupied him a good deal .
You would like very well to be at liberty on that beach !
Let us add that in these times of lax morality they had no more delicacy with respect to the mistresses ; and that the latter almost always left them valuable and durable remembrances , as if they essayed to conquer the fragility of their sentiments by the solidity of their gifts .
“ The devil !
Let them wait for me at the Pomme-de-Pin .
There is very little amusement in the cloister , and the good superior was eager to make the acquaintance of her new boarder .
20347m “ Excellent , ” murmured Monte Cristo to himself , as he came away .
“ Now , my dear friend , look upon all I tell you as merely the statement of a monk—of a man who resembles an echo—repeating simply what he hears .
Save me ! ” Porthos and Aramis arose .
And you ? ” “ I shared the same fate at Aquapendente. ” “ Do you know , Signor Pastrini , ” said Albert , lighting a second cigar at the first , “ that this practice is very convenient for bandits , and that it seems to be due to an arrangement of their own. ” Doubtless Signor Pastrini found this pleasantry compromising , for he only answered half the question , and then he spoke to Franz , as the only one likely to listen with attention .
Now let us return to the mission with which you wish to charge me ; and as I desire to continue to merit the confidence of your Eminence , deign to unfold it to me in terms clear and precise , that I may not commit an error. ” There was an instant of profound silence between the two interlocutors .
Sleep well your last night as citizen. ” “ I am to be a soldier then ? ” said the young man .
“ I wish to say three words to you , Monsieur Chevalier , ” stammered the _soubrette_ .
One day , in a moment of despair like yours , since it led to a similar resolution , I also wished to kill myself ; one day your father , equally desperate , wished to kill himself too .
“ Fortunately , she was unscathed , and it was fright alone that had overcome Teresa .
But however and whensoever he did escape , what hatred he must cherish against him to whom he owed his long imprisonment ; who had taken him , rich , brave , glorious , beloved by women , feared by men , to cut off his life ’ s best , happiest years ; for it is not life , it is merely existence , in prison !
Say no more , I entreat you .
no !
What you would now do amounts to treason. ” D ’ Artagnan perceived the force of this reasoning , and was silent .
I am the Viscount de Bragelonne and he is called Grimaud. ” At this moment the wounded man arrived from one direction and the monk from the other , the latter dismounting from his mule and desiring that it should be taken to the stables without being unharnessed .
Be sure to provide yourself with some previous engagement which shall have a semblance of probability , and communicate the fact to me by a line in writing .
D ’ Artagnan would have been at the height of his wishes if he had not constantly seen Milady like a dark cloud hovering in the horizon .
God was still in his heart .
I have no business in London. ” “ But others wish that you should go there. ” “ But who are those others ?
That was the sloop .
Are our lackeys sufficiently devoted to us to risk their lives for us ?
my weapons. ” “ What weapons ? ” “ My military weapons. ” “ Yes , my lord ; at any rate , I think so. ” “ Make sure of it , and if they want it , have them burnished up .
On guard , then , monsieur , on guard ! ” Bernajoux was not a man to have such a compliment paid to him twice .
I understand , ” replied Porthos ; “ she has ordered relays of horses. ” “ Exactly so. ” “ And we are pursuing the duke with the very horses he has just left ? ” “ My dear Porthos , you are really a man of most superior understanding , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with a look as if he spoke against his conviction .
He remembered the Count of Monte Cristo .
“ ‘ Well , then , we ’ ll do our best. ’ Having said that , they went out of the stable. ” “ Well , what matters all that to us ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Speak to him yourself , for ever since you were deputed by me to arrest the Duc de Beaufort , this officer and I have been on bad terms .
It is you who sold us , my mother and me , to the merchant , El-Kobbir !
Cloud let fall slowly ten strokes from its sonorous jaws .
“ He received yesterday a message from the Prince de Condé ; he went to meet him at Saint Cloud and has not returned. ” “ Have you seen Madame de Chevreuse ? ” “ She was not at home .
“ Through or over ; coachman , gallop on. ” The coachman raised his whip .
Allowing his head to sink upon his two hands , he pretended to sleep .
the devil !
“ Are you come to fetch me ? ” asked he .
When the hour appointed for the audience arrived Athos was obliged to stay until the queen , who was waited upon by a new deputation from Paris , had consulted with her minister as to the propriety and manner of receiving them .
The baroness was partially reclining on a sofa , Eugénie sat near her , and Cavalcanti was standing .
If you are outside the United States , check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading , copying , displaying , performing , distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work .
“ The balance would come to about that sum ; but keep it , and we shall be quits. ” “ Count , ” said Danglars , “ are you speaking seriously ? ” “ I never joke with bankers , ” said Monte Cristo in a freezing manner , which repelled impertinence ; and he turned to the door , just as the valet de chambre announced : “ M .
In losing sight of his guardian , whom he had quitted , gazing after him in front of the royal basilican , Raoul spurred on his horse , in order not only to escape from his own melancholy reflections , but also to hide from Olivain the emotion his face might betray .
You were rich when I married you , but little respected .
“ Ah !
So , my dear Aramis , say no more about it and let us prepare to submit to destiny. ” “ Zounds !
Now , if they believed us , they laughed in order to insult us ; if they did not believe it they insulted us all the more .
It is a mercy to let me die , for if I live I shall lose my reason and become mad .
“ Sir , ” said she , “ the language which I speak with my grandfather may be easily learnt , and I can teach you in a few minutes , to understand it almost as well as I can myself .
“ Have I discovered the truth ? ” he said ; “ but whether it be for recompense or punishment , I accept my fate .
“ Who calls Richelieu calls Satan. ” “ Hold your tongue , hold your tongue , madame !
“ That is good to see , ” said Aramis .
Signor Pastrini , who had been accustomed to see them dine together , inquired into the cause of his absence , but Franz merely replied that Albert had received on the previous evening an invitation which he had accepted .
The count continued : “ ‘ I have given him renewed life and hope , in the assurance that you have the power of restoring the son whom he has vainly sought for fifteen years. ’ ” The major looked at the count with an indescribable expression of anxiety .
He checked by degrees the speed of his horse and went on , his head drooping as if in deep thought .
In a word , Mademoiselle Danglars would make a charming mistress—but a wife—_diable ! _ ” “ And this , ” said Monte Cristo , “ is your opinion of your intended spouse ? ” “ Yes ; it is rather unkind , I acknowledge , but it is true .
“ Where is the count ? —where is Haydée ? ” “ Look ! ” said Jacopo .
Would you like me to send Edward to you for a short time ? ” It had been agreed that the old man should express his approbation by closing his eyes , his refusal by winking them several times , and if he had some desire or feeling to express , he raised them to heaven .
“ Besides , sir , ” said Villefort , addressing himself to his future son-in-law , “ excepting the loss of a portion of your hopes , this unexpected will need not personally wound you ; M. Noirtier ’ s weakness of mind sufficiently explains it .
“ Good ! ” he said , “ nothing , almost nothing—scratches , nothing more ; two in the arm and one in the breast .
I am quite aware that my friend Wilmore is peculiar , but he is sincere , and as rich as a gold mine , consequently , he may indulge his eccentricities without any fear of their ruining him , and I have promised to adhere to his instructions .
It is a folly , I admit , but still it is the fashion .
really , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ these people are very ingenious .
“ How should he be ? ” replied Athos , whilst mounting also , “ seeing he was used so long to brush your hats. ” Chapter LXXVI .
And now eat and drink ; I will entertain you tonight .
Should it not be found in possession of either father or son , then it will assuredly be discovered in the cabin belonging to the said Dantès on board the _Pharaon_. ” “ How dreadful ! ” said Mercédès , passing her hand across her brow , moist with perspiration ; “ and that letter—— ” “ I bought it for two hundred thousand francs , madame , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ but that is a trifle , since it enables me to justify myself to you. ” “ And the result of that letter—— ” “ You well know , madame , was my arrest ; but you do not know how long that arrest lasted .
Beauchamp , who had watched with sincere pity the young man ’ s paroxysm of grief , approached him .
Planchet , go and find Aramis .
The brigadier , calm and dignified as the law he represented , passed through the crowd , without answering the thousand questions addressed to him , and re-entered the hotel .
I left him about five minutes ago , and he is now occupied in dictating his will to two notaries. ” “ But to do this he must have spoken ? ” “ He has done better than that—he has made himself understood. ” “ How was such a thing possible ? ” “ By the help of his eyes , which are still full of life , and , as you perceive , possess the power of inflicting mortal injury. ” “ My dear , ” said Madame de Villefort , who had just entered the room , “ perhaps you exaggerate the evil. ” “ Good-morning , madame , ” said the count , bowing .
Devil of a man , Corsican that you are—always mysteries or superstitions .
“ Saved ! ” exclaimed the man with gray hair , who also touched bottom .
You don ’ t know him ? ” “ No. ” “ Did you never see him ? ” “ Yes , I have seen him , but I don ’ t know what he calls himself. ” “ Your name ? ” replied the commissary .
It is well known how violent the king ’ s prejudices were against the queen , and how carefully these prejudices were kept up by the cardinal , who in affairs of intrigue mistrusted women infinitely more than men .
Well , do you understand , monsieur ?
Now , thinking that her host was a priest , that coquette took it into her head that it would be a happy souvenir for her old age , among the many happy souvenirs she already possessed , if she could win that of having damned an abbé. ” “ Count , ” said the duchess , “ upon my word , you frighten me. ” “ Alas ! ” continued Athos , “ the poor abbé was not a St. Ambroise , and I repeat , Marie Michon was an adorable creature. ” “ Monsieur ! ” cried the duchess , seizing Athos ’ s hands , “ tell me this moment how you know all these details , or I will send to the convent of the Vieux Augustins for a monk to come and exorcise you. ” Athos laughed .
“ Because , ” said the old man , “ the natural repugnance to the commission of such a crime prevented you from thinking of it ; and so it ever is because in simple and allowable things our natural instincts keep us from deviating from the strict line of duty .
The joy of the king was lively .
They had taken some refreshment on the road and hastened on , that they might not fail at the appointed place .
“ What do you want , M. Bertuccio ? ” said he .
28. ” “ Then , ” cried Villefort , “ was it you who bought M. de Saint-Méran ’ s house ! ” “ Did it belong to M. de Saint-Méran ? ” demanded Monte Cristo .
Milady , pale as a corpse , endeavored to cry out ; but her swollen tongue could utter no more than a hoarse sound which had nothing human in it and resembled the rattle of a wild beast .
And now there is no more to be said ; go and rejoin your mother and sister. ” “ My father , ” said the young man , bending his knee , “ bless me ! ” Morrel took the head of his son between his two hands , drew him forward , and kissing his forehead several times said : “ Oh , yes , yes , I bless you in my own name , and in the name of three generations of irreproachable men , who say through me , ‘ The edifice which misfortune has destroyed , Providence may build up again. ’ On seeing me die such a death , the most inexorable will have pity on you .
Come , come , do not look so astonished , or you will make me think you are laughing at me in return for my good nature. ” Dantès pressed the gendarme ’ s hand as though he would crush it .
The prince procured for Marie Michon the dress of a cavalier and for Kitty that of a lackey ; he sent them two excellent horses , and the fugitives went out hastily from Tours , shaping their course toward Spain , trembling at the least noise , following unfrequented roads , and asking for hospitality when they found themselves where there was no inn. ” “ Why , really , it was all exactly as you say ! ” cried Madame de Chevreuse , clapping her hands .
If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement , you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession .
Can you , sir , produce any witnesses to the truth of what you have asserted ? ’ — ‘ Alas , no , monsieur , ’ replied the count ; ‘ all those who surrounded the vizier , or who knew me at his court , are either dead or gone away , I know not where .
For an instant the idea struck Madame Danglars that this eagerness on the part of the young viscount arose from his impatience to join her party , and she whispered her expectations to her daughter , that Albert was hurrying to pay his respects to them .
To fight , that was to disobey the law , that was to risk his head , that was to make at one blow an enemy of a minister more powerful than the king himself .
Scarcely had it reached them , ere the boy , though still pale as marble , opened his eyes , and eagerly gazed around him .
Franz remained with M. de Villefort ; at the gate of the cemetery Morrel made an excuse to wait ; he saw Franz and M. de Villefort get into the same mourning-coach , and thought this meeting forboded evil .
“ Are you not married ? ” asked the countess .
Bonacieux , eagerly , and looking at D ’ Artagnan with disquiet .
“ How ?
Suddenly the sky seemed to him to become still darker and more dense , and heavy clouds seemed to sweep down towards him ; at the same time he felt a sharp pain in his knee .
For me the grave opens when I pass the threshold of this house. ” “ I will fulfil all your wishes , my dear mother , ” said the young man .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied Raoul , with slight hesitation ; “ I did not sleep well. ” “ You , Raoul , not sleep well !
The woman ’ s hood was pulled down , and the man held a handkerchief to his face .
I will extinguish the fire with blood !
If he were alone in the world he would blow out his brains , and there would be an end. ” “ Horrible ! ” ejaculated the priest .
The Countess G—— insists upon it that he is a vampire. ” “ Then the Countess G—— has returned to Paris , has she ? ” inquired the baroness .
They set out .
It was evident that she was making unnatural efforts to subdue her anger ; she fanned herself , smelled at her vinaigrette and walked up and down .
Well , I wait patiently , do I not ? ” “ Yes ; because instead of expecting two hundred wretched francs , you expect five or six thousand , perhaps ten , perhaps even twelve , for you take care not to let anyone know the utmost .
Whilst all this was going on , a cavalier in full gallop was seen approaching .
The apartment of M. Bonacieux , then , became a mousetrap ; and whoever appeared there was taken and interrogated by the cardinal ’ s people .
Then , internally , “ If Renée could see me , I hope she would be satisfied , and would no longer call me a decapitator. ” “ Well , when we quitted Naples , Captain Leclere was attacked with a brain fever .
The minute hand moved on .
Athos cast a glance over the epistle , and to disperse all the suspicions that might have been created , read aloud : “ MY COUSIN , My sister and I are skillful in interpreting dreams , and even entertain great fear of them ; but of yours it may be said , I hope , every dream is an illusion .
At this moment he saw the light of Planier , gleaming in front of him like a star .
“ And how did he look ? ” asked Porthos , who , perceiving that D ’ Artagnan had allowed the conversation to drop , profited by it to put in a word or two .
I have told him the truth ; that is to say , that the fault lay with my people , and that I was ready to offer you my excuses .
what is your name ? ” “ I shall tell you my name in order that you may know where to find me , my lord , or my prince , as it may suit you best to be called , ” said our Gascon , who did not choose to seem to yield to a threat .
See !
Then she grasped the front hair , which she also cut off , without expressing the least regret ; on the contrary , her eyes sparkled with greater pleasure than usual under her ebony eyebrows .
For my part , I declare I want two thousand. ” “ Four times two makes eight , ” then said Aramis ; “ it is eight thousand that we want to complete our outfits , toward which , it is true , we have already the saddles. ” “ Besides , ” said Athos , waiting till D ’ Artagnan , who went to thank Monsieur de Tréville , had shut the door , “ besides , there is that beautiful ring which beams from the finger of our friend .
“ The devil ! ” cried Aramis , “ you have a magnificent horse there , Porthos. ” “ Yes , ” replied Porthos , “ it is the one that ought to have been sent to me at first .
Still more must be done .
Hasten to Monte Cristo—avail yourself of the fortune—for you have indeed suffered long enough. ” A violent convulsion attacked the old man .
“ Adieu , brother ! ” cried Milady .
“ A prisoner , you will not recover your liberty through me ; living , you will not lose your life through me. ” “ Yes , ” cried Milady , “ but I shall lose that which is much dearer to me than life , I shall lose my honor , Felton ; and it is you , you whom I make responsible , before God and before men , for my shame and my infamy. ” This time Felton , immovable as he was , or appeared to be , could not resist the secret influence which had already taken possession of him .
“ Then , Porthos and Aramis , will you remain with this man while we go around to Grimaud ? ” Grimaud had made himself a kind of sentry box out of a hollow willow , and as they drew near he put his head out and gave a low whistle .
20293m “ It was the end of September ; the wind blew violently .
The queen at last asked him if he had anything to add to the fine discourse he had just made to her .
“ RICHELIEU ” “ In fact , ” said Aramis , “ it is an absolution according to rule. ” “ That paper must be torn to pieces , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who fancied he read in it his sentence of death .
But how could he find his way in the darkness of the night ?
The young man was already dressed and was reading a new book by M. Chapelain .
He bestowed the same attention upon the cambric front of a shirt , which had considerably changed in color since his entrance into the prison , and he polished his varnished boots with the corner of a handkerchief embroidered with initials surmounted by a coronet .
You jest !
Recovering himself , however , he wiped the perspiration from his brows , and stopped not again till he found himself at the door of the house in which his father had lived .
“ Grimaud can take care of the horses , ” said Planchet .
Speak , I am ready to obey. ” “ No , monsieur , no ; I am not called Louis the Just without reason .
“ You may imagine the amazement of the fugitive when he found himself flung headlong over the rocks !
“ We will go on , gentlemen , ” said the queen .
As for the count , he had fallen on his chair ; it was evident that his legs refused to support him .
“ If you arrive safely at home—— ” “ What have I to fear , except from you ? ” “ If you reach your home safely , leave Paris , leave France , and wherever you may be , so long as you conduct yourself well , I will send you a small annuity ; for , if you return home safely , then—— ” “ Then ? ” asked Caderousse , shuddering .
They then dressed themselves .
What is his name ? ” “ You know him. ” “ Indeed. ” “ Yes. ” “ It is surely not one of my friends ? ” replied D ’ Artagnan , affecting hesitation in order to make her believe him ignorant .
Those two words , _your Mass_ , and a simple glance cast upon Felton , revealed to her all the importance of the reply she was about to make ; but with that rapidity of intelligence which was peculiar to her , this reply , ready arranged , presented itself to her lips : “ I ? ” said she , with an accent of disdain in unison with that which she had remarked in the voice of the young officer , “ I , sir ?
50219m There had been no prisoners confined in the Château d ’ If since the revolution of July ; it was only inhabited by a guard , kept there for the prevention of smuggling .
“ I believed him still at Brussels. ” “ Oh , sir , if you know who this man is , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ tell me who he is , and whence he is .
His comrades believed that his vow was fulfilled .
“ I go out ? ” he said .
Bread and Salt Madame de Morcerf entered an archway of trees with her companion .
The room was whitewashed , as is the custom in prisons , but it looked quite brilliant to a prisoner , though a stove , a bed , a chair , and a table formed the whole of its sumptuous furniture .
“ I am uneasy about Blaisois , ” said Athos ; “ he can , he says , only swim in rivers. ” “ When people can swim at all they can swim anywhere .
After having been for some time after the death of Louis XIII .
He says you were the sun of Rome , and that without you all appears dark and cloudy ; I do not know if he does not even go so far as to say that it rains. ” “ His opinion of me is altered for the better , then ? ” “ No , he still persists in looking upon you as the most incomprehensible and mysterious of beings. ” “ He is a charming young man , ” said Monte Cristo “ and I felt a lively interest in him the very first evening of my introduction , when I met him in search of a supper , and prevailed upon him to accept a portion of mine .
If her majesty will have faith in my counsels she ought to profit by this event to address at this moment , in favor of her august husband , the court of France .
Therefore , when , at dessert , upon a sign from D ’ Artagnan , Porthos had sent away his servants and the two friends were alone : “ Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ who will attend you in your campaigns ? ” “ Why , ” replied Porthos , “ Mouston , of course. ” This was a blow to D ’ Artagnan .
You have done this—I hope so , at least. ” Madame de Villefort stretched out her hands , and fell on her knees .
If you received the work on a physical medium , you must return the medium with your written explanation .
“ I know you are accustomed to assassinate people ; but I warn you I shall defend myself , even against you. ” “ You are right , ” said Milady .
This is what I shall do ; I will wait until the very moment you are married , for I will not lose the shadow of one of those unexpected chances which are sometimes reserved for us , since M. Franz may , after all , die before that time , a thunderbolt may fall even on the altar as you approach it , —nothing appears impossible to one condemned to die , and miracles appear quite reasonable when his escape from death is concerned .
The poor girl promised all her lover desired ; she was mad .
“ No , only add two bottles of champagne , and the difference will be for the napkins. ” The host had not quite so good a bargain as he at first hoped for , but he made amends by slipping in two bottles of Anjou wine instead of two bottles of champagne .
Besides , there was no tranquillity in Paris itself .
Then he became alarmed , and dared not stay any longer at Nîmes , so he solicited a change of residence , and , as he was in reality very influential , he was nominated to Versailles .
Louis de Bourbon , Prince de Condé , who , since the death of his father , Henri de Bourbon , was called , in accordance with the custom of that period , Monsieur le Prince , was a young man , not more than twenty-six or twenty-seven years old , with the eye of an eagle—agl ’ occhi grifani , as Dante says—aquiline nose , long , waving hair , of medium height , well formed , possessed of all the qualities essential to the successful soldier—that is to say , the rapid glance , quick decision , fabulous courage .
As a result she raised her head , opened her eyes , and sighed deeply .
“ What o ’ clock is it ? ” The baron drew out his watch .
“ Suppose I were a soldier like you , and ordered to carry a certain redoubt , and you knew I must be killed in the assault , would you not say to me , as you said just now , ‘ Go , father ; for you are dishonored by delay , and death is preferable to shame ! ’ ” “ Yes , yes , ” said the young man , “ yes ; ” and once again embracing his father with convulsive pressure , he said , “ Be it so , my father. ” And he rushed out of the study .
Good-bye , then. ” “ Good-bye , till we meet again. ” They had arrived in the Champs-Élysées .
you are not wrong after all , and life is sweet .
Mordaunt made several strokes more , and raising his arm in sign of distress above the waves : “ Pity , pity on me , gentlemen , in Heaven ’ s name !
Selim , still holding in his hand the lighted match , walked towards the opening in the cavern , and , aided by the faint light which streamed in through the mouth of the cave , picked up the token .
Alas , alas , alas ; all the world is wicked ; let us therefore strike at wickedness ! ” Villefort pronounced these last words with a feverish rage , which gave a ferocious eloquence to his words .
But she had her son .
Nevertheless , if the affairs of our family are arranged , as we hope they will be , I believe she will run the risk of being damned , and will return to those she regrets , particularly as she knows they are always thinking of her .
Display is not becoming to everyone , M. de Morcerf. ” At this name a murmur of astonishment passed around the group of spectators of this scene .
Then the heavy and collected steps of a multitude of men were heard , and the queen herself raised the tapestry hangings and put her finger on her lips .
The porter was drawing the cord at the moment Milady cried from her window , “ Don ’ t open ! ” The young man fled while she was still threatening him with an impotent gesture .
“ This way , this way , my dear Albert ! ” said he , holding out his hand to the young man .
Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks , online payments and credit card donations .
After the siege I shall enter the house of the Lazarists .
“ All is ready for to-morrow evening .
Are you not the Captain Fernand who betrayed , sold , and murdered his benefactor , Ali ?
“ And you did not awaken me ? ” “ I wished to leave you still to enjoy some moments of sleep , my child ; you must be fatigued from yesterday. ” “ Oh , sir , how good you are ! ” Athos smiled .
Mousqueton !
But have the kindness to give the Abbé Busoni—— ” “ I told you he was not at home , ” repeated the valet .
The report of firearms was heard near the Rue Saint Denis and occasionally church bells began to ring indiscriminately and at the caprice of the populace .
Ah , I see you are smiling. ” “ If you are already aware of the conversation that passed , the wooden partition which interposed between us and you has proved but a slight security. ” “ Come , what did she say ? ” “ She told me that she loved no one , ” said Valentine ; “ that she disliked the idea of being married ; that she would infinitely prefer leading an independent and unfettered life ; and that she almost wished her father might lose his fortune , that she might become an artist , like her friend , Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly. ” “ Ah , you see—— ” “ Well , what does that prove ? ” asked Valentine .
He was charming .
But he does wrong to use his privilege .
Oh , my beautiful sovereign , a hundred times , thanks ! ” “ Oh , my Lord !
Porthos looked at D ’ Artagnan , quite amazed at the resources with which his companion ’ s Gascon sharpness continually supplied him .
Come , come , we must be off .
Well , then , what do you think of the _molli anhelitu_ ? ” “ Admirable , sire ; but my messenger is like the stag you refer to , for he has posted two hundred and twenty leagues in scarcely three days. ” “ Which is undergoing great fatigue and anxiety , my dear duke , when we have a telegraph which transmits messages in three or four hours , and that without getting in the least out of breath. ” “ Ah , sire , you recompense but badly this poor young man , who has come so far , and with so much ardor , to give your majesty useful information .
“ Go and see , Cocles , and if my father is there , announce this gentleman. ” “ It will be useless to announce me , mademoiselle , ” returned the Englishman .
“ It is true , then , ” he said , rather uttering his thoughts aloud than addressing his companion , — “ it is true , then , that all our actions leave their traces—some sad , others bright—on our paths ; it is true that every step in our lives is like the course of an insect on the sands ; —it leaves its track !
You see , monsieur , what the New World has to do with the bottles which are on the commode and the wardrobe .
The fee is owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark , but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation .
When I say I want , I mean the queen wants them .
Bonacieux .
And was he not the person who was assassinated one evening on leaving a Bonapartist meeting to which he had been invited on the supposition that he favored the cause of the emperor ? ” Villefort looked at the count almost with terror .
That is rather difficult , but the merit in all things consists in the difficulty .
Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law .
This was a great matter in the way of honor , but very little in the way of wealth ; so that when the illustrious companion of the great Henry died , the only inheritance he was able to leave his son was his sword and his motto .
As he had foreseen , Lens had fallen into the hands of the enemy immediately after Raoul ’ s departure .
“ Oh , if I had my three friends here , ” cried he , “ I should have , at least , some hopes of finding her ; but who knows what has become of them ? ” It was past midnight ; the next thing was to find Planchet .
“ My lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ Monsieur de Vallon is like me , he prefers service extraordinary—that is to say , enterprises that are considered mad and impossible. ” That boastfulness was not displeasing to Mazarin ; he fell into meditation .
It was evident , from her figure and the perfumes she had about her , that she was young and fastidious in her tastes , but that was all .
For the people had learned that Broussel and Blancmesnil had made speeches in their behalf , and , although the eloquence of these deputies had been without avail , it had none the less won for them the people ’ s good-will .
The count was no longer young .
“ Return to Paris , ” said he ; “ assemble the servants who remain there .
And then , shut out from friendship , having but one affection , which could not be mixed up with her ordinary pursuits , she thought of herself—of no one but herself .
For shame !
Aramis rushed to the Hotel de Ville , where Madame de Longueville was sojourning .
Six of his Eminence ’ s Guards arrest six of his Majesty ’ s Musketeers !
30145m “ Oh , very simply ; black trousers , patent leather boots , white waistcoat , either a black or blue coat , and a long cravat .
‘ Monsieur , ’ said I , ‘ does it still displease you that I should frequent a certain house of La Rue Payenne ?
For this purpose I applied all the strength I possessed to force an entrance from the cramped spot in which I lay to the adjoining room .
Eleven o ’ clock sounded .
; “ for if you have discovered nothing , at least you have had the good sense to persevere in your suspicions .
There is but one person , or rather , one cause , to whom a man like me can be useful—that of the king. ” “ Exactly , ” answered the musketeer .
“ Matters go but badly , ” said Athos , smiling ; “ and we shall not be made Chevaliers of the Order this time. ” “ Wait here ten minutes , ” said M. de Tréville ; “ and if at the expiration of ten minutes you do not see me come out , return to my hôtel , for it will be useless for you to wait for me longer. ” The four young men waited ten minutes , a quarter of an hour , twenty minutes ; and seeing that M. de Tréville did not return , went away very uneasy as to what was going to happen .
“ Oh , enough of this , —enough of this , ” he cried ; “ let me save the last. ” On entering his house , he met Morrel , who wandered about like a ghost awaiting the heavenly mandate for return to the tomb .
“ At last , charged with murders , with debauchery , hated by every one and yet threatening still , like a panther thirsting for blood , she fell under the blows of men whom she had rendered desperate , though they had never done her the least injury ; she met with judges whom her hideous crimes had evoked ; and that executioner you saw—that executioner who you say told you everything—that executioner , if he told you everything , told you that he leaped with joy in avenging on her his brother ’ s shame and suicide .
Come , this is no longer our home ! ” The words died away , the steps were lost in the distance .
No sooner said than done .
Put your names into a hat and draw lots. ” “ A good idea , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Cama , the pilot of the _Saint Ferdinand_ , went in once , and he came back amazed , vowing that such treasures were only to be heard of in fairy tales. ” “ Do you know , ” observed Franz , “ that with such stories you make me think of Ali Baba ’ s enchanted cavern ? ” “ I tell you what I have been told. ” “ Then you advise me to accept ? ” “ Oh , I don ’ t say that ; your excellency will do as you please ; I should be sorry to advise you in the matter. ” Franz pondered the matter for a few moments , concluded that a man so rich could not have any intention of plundering him of what little he had , and seeing only the prospect of a good supper , accepted .
“ Yes , look at yourself in that glass ; you have turned pale and then red successively , three or four times in one minute. ” “ Indeed , ” cried Eugénie , “ you are very pale ! ” “ Oh , do not be alarmed ; I have been so for many days. ” Artless as she was , the young girl knew that this was an opportunity to leave , and besides , Madame de Villefort came to her assistance .
“ And why ? ” “ Ah , very well ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I see that you understand French .
She asked me not to send the Protestants of La Rochelle the assistance I promised them ; I have not done so .
“ Well , yes , Planchet , to be sure , ” said Athos , “ what is there so astonishing in that ?
May I go and ask them , that I may have the opportunity of making my peace with you ? ” “ No , no , ” said Noirtier ’ s look .
Once concealed with her at Armentières , it would be easy to make her believe that D ’ Artagnan had not come to Béthune .
Mordaunt followed the carriage , and when he had watched it drive beneath the sombre arches he went and stationed himself under a wall over which the shadow was extended , and remained motionless , amidst the moldings of Jean Goujon , like a bas-relievo , representing an equestrian statue .
“ Come , ” she added .
“ There , do you hear ? ” observed Gaetano ; “ he is bidding you adieu. ” The young man took his carbine and fired it in the air , but without any idea that the noise could be heard at the distance which separated the yacht from the shore .
Besides , although she avoided coming within speaking distance , Valentine arranged so that Maximilian could see her pass and repass , and each time she went by , she managed , unperceived by her companion , to cast an expressive look at the young man , which seemed to say , “ Have patience !
Monte Cristo felt his limbs tremble ; he seated himself upon a log of wood .
Take your handkerchief ; whether it belongs to you or another , you may perhaps stand in need of it. ” “ Monsieur is a Gascon ? ” asked Aramis .
“ I really don ’ t know what hotel it is ; all I do know is that I observed some suspicious looking people go in there—— ” “ Nonsense ! ” exclaimed Guitant , with a burst of laughter ; “ those men must be poets. ” “ Come , Guitant , speak , if you please , respectfully of these gentlemen , ” said Mazarin ; “ don ’ t you know that I was in my youth a poet ?
On perceiving Monte Cristo , she arose and welcomed him with a smile peculiar to herself , expressive at once of the most implicit obedience and also of the deepest love .
Blaisois went with him .
“ What ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ is your first witness Monsieur Porthos ? ” “ Yes , that disturbs you ? ” “ By no means. ” “ And here is the second. ” D ’ Artagnan turned in the direction pointed to by Athos , and perceived Aramis .
Quiet was at length restored .
Spada turned pale , as Cæsar looked at him with an ironical air , which proved that he had anticipated all , and that the snare was well spread .
“ When I saw you at your chateau at Bragelonne , I made certain proposals to you which you perfectly understood ; instead of answering me as a friend , you played with me as a child ; the friendship , therefore , that you boast of was not broken yesterday by the shock of swords , but by your dissimulation at your castle. ” “ D ’ Artagnan ! ” said Athos , reproachfully .
Villefort and Madame Danglars remained for a moment , as if rooted to their seats ; they questioned each other with vague and stupid glances .
They were the same statues , rich in form , in attraction , and poesy , with eyes of fascination , smiles of love , and bright and flowing hair .
Andrea had spoken very little during dinner ; he was an intelligent lad , and he feared to utter some absurdity before so many grand people , amongst whom , with dilating eyes , he saw the king ’ s attorney .
Chapter LI .
But will you be able to follow me ? ” “ Oh , yes ! ” “ Your wound ? ” “ Gives me pain , but will not prevent my walking. ” “ Be ready , then , at the first signal. ” Milady shut the window , extinguished the lamp , and went , as Felton had desired her , to lie down on the bed .
I resist my father ’ s order , and my dying grandmother ’ s wish ?
“ He was her grandfather on the mother ’ s side .
You wish to make me believe something too dreadful .
“ May I be hanged , ” said Danglars , glancing at the bandit ’ s dinner through the crevices of the door , — “ may I be hanged if I can understand how people can eat such filth ! ” and he withdrew to seat himself upon his goat-skin , which reminded him of the smell of the brandy .
“ Ho ! ” said Porthos , raising himself in his bed ; “ what does she say ? ” D ’ Artagnan requested the servant to wait in the next room and when the door was closed he sprang up from his bed and read rapidly , whilst Porthos looked at him with starting eyes , not daring to ask a single question .
“ Sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you will go and release your companion , who is guarding the coachman .
With the entrance of M. Morrel , Danglars and Caderousse were despatched in search of the bridegroom to convey to him the intelligence of the arrival of the important personage whose coming had created such a lively sensation , and to beseech him to make haste .
Caderousse counted and again counted the gold and the notes , then handed them to his wife , who counted and counted them again in her turn .
She appeared to take a great interest in him , asked him whence he came , who were his friends , and whether he had not sometimes thought of attaching himself to the cardinal .
Dantès carefully collected the plaster , carried it into the corner of his cell , and covered it with earth .
“ The address , ‘ To monsieur the Baron Danglars , banker , Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin. ’ ” Caderousse wrote the address .
Blaisois found Bazin donning his beadle ’ s gown , his services being required that day at Notre Dame .
Grimaud showed his closed hand , with two fingers spread out .
“ Yes , ” replied Noirtier with an expression of sinister joy .
“ Ah , my dear sir , you are most welcome ; I was expecting you. ” “ Indeed , ” said the Italian , “ was your excellency then aware of my visit ? ” “ Yes ; I had been told that I should see you today at seven o ’ clock. ” “ Then you have received full information concerning my arrival ? ” “ Of course. ” “ Ah , so much the better , I feared this little precaution might have been forgotten. ” 30119m “ What precaution ? ” “ That of informing you beforehand of my coming. ” “ Oh , no , it has not. ” “ But you are sure you are not mistaken. ” “ Very sure. ” “ It really was I whom your excellency expected at seven o ’ clock this evening ? ” “ I will prove it to you beyond a doubt. ” “ Oh , no , never mind that , ” said the Italian ; “ it is not worth the trouble. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said Monte Cristo .
Monte Cristo watched him till he disappeared , and then touched a spring in a panel made to look like a picture , which , in sliding partly from the frame , discovered to view a small opening , so cleverly contrived that it revealed all that was passing in the drawing-room now occupied by Cavalcanti and Andrea .
Meantime the three friends were standing motionless before the awful sight which D ’ Artagnan , in raising the shutters , had disclosed to them through the narrow opening of the window .
The other leaned against a tree , supported there by the two valets , and was praying fervently , with clasped hands and eyes raised to Heaven .
“ Nothing at all. ” “ That ’ s a capital arrangement .
“ Well , ” said he , “ friend , what matters the regiment of guards to us , and art thou not mad to make such a disturbance ?
You pledge yourself to that , marshal ? ” added Gondy , turning to La Meilleraie .
If succor be sent to me , I will accept it. ” “ Ah , madame , ” said Monte Cristo , “ you should not talk thus !
all ! ” “ Answer , then .
But D ’ Artagnan at the same time , being a man of extreme caution , was quite aware what injury he should do himself , if by any indiscretion or awkwardness he should betray has manoeuvering to the experienced eye of Athos .
the queen , my sister , is no longer queen , my child .
It is not for nothing we are but twenty years old , above all if we were born at Tarbes .
“ I desire that these horses , with completely new harness , may be at the door with my carriage. ” Bertuccio bowed , and was about to retire ; but when he reached the door , he paused , and then said , “ At what o ’ clock does your excellency wish the carriage and horses to be ready ? ” “ At five o ’ clock , ” replied the count .
“ Wait , my dear father , ” said the young man , “ one word more. ” “ Say on. ” “ However stupid the royalist police may be , they do know one terrible thing. ” “ What is that ? ” “ The description of the man who , on the morning of the day when General Quesnel disappeared , presented himself at his house. ” “ Oh , the admirable police have found that out , have they ?
A few minutes afterwards a flash of light , which was extinguished instantly , was seen on the land , and the sound of firearms reached the yacht .
Porthos next made an effort which shook the solid wall , and by the aid of his friend ’ s hand gained the summit .
After breakfast , the abbess came to pay her a visit .
At length Milady could hold out no longer ; she broke the silence .
“ Well , in that case , we can manage famously , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ which of the two horses will you ride—that which you bought or the one that was given to you ? ” “ That which was given to me , assuredly .
“ Because you are not feverish or delirious tonight , but thoroughly awake ; midnight is striking , which is the hour murderers choose. ” “ Oh , heavens , ” exclaimed Valentine , wiping off the drops which ran down her forehead .
“ Answer in your turn , or you may repent of your disobedience. ” “ King ’ s Musketeers , ” said Athos , more and more convinced that he who interrogated them had the right to do so .
I owe you my real good , my present happiness ; and all the sovereigns of the earth , even Cæsar Borgia himself , could not deprive me of this. ” Thus , if not actually happy , yet the days these two unfortunates passed together went quickly .
To the deputation it was formally announced that the queen would receive it .
oh ! ” cried Porthos , “ do you think so ? ” “ You are exaggerating , Athos ; we are not so far gone as that , ” replied the lieutenant .
Chevalier , ” he continued , addressing Aramis , who , leaning proudly on his sword , seemed to agree with his companion , “ Chevalier , Porthos and I run no risk ; besides , should any ill-luck happen to two of us , will it not be much better that the other two should be spared to assist those who may be apprehended ?
Did I tell you that I wouldn ’ t serve any other ?
“ Ah , ” said Andrea , deeply affected .
Chapter 61 .
My father said I was his ‘ joy ’ —you style me your ‘ love , ’ —and both of you have called me ‘ my child. ’ ” “ Do you remember your father , Haydée ? ” The young Greek smiled .
“ Now , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I am going to call this soldier and talk to him .
“ Fire ! ” cried Grimaud , unconsciously .
If a repast were on foot , Athos presided over it better than any other , placing every guest exactly in the rank which his ancestors had earned for him or that he had made for himself .
Was it an entire army ?
As to the time , it will not require very much more than the generality of wills .
20029m As to the note which accompanied this , the Englishman understood that it might have been added by some inspector who had taken a momentary interest in Dantès ’ situation , but who had , from the remarks we have quoted , found it impossible to give any effect to the interest he had felt .
Porthos , who had lost the fifty pistoles he had won the night before and thirty more besides , was very cross and questioned D ’ Artagnan with a nudge of the knee as to whether it would not soon be time to change the game .
“ One day , when Benedetto was about five or six , our neighbor Wasilio , who , according to the custom of the country , never locked up his purse or his valuables—for , as your excellency knows , there are no thieves in Corsica—complained that he had lost a louis out of his purse ; we thought he must have made a mistake in counting his money , but he persisted in the accuracy of his statement .
Grimaud understood that it was to be a breakfast on the grass , took the basket , packed up the viands , added the bottles , and then took the basket on his arm .
Chapter V. The Gascon and the Italian .
Be prudent !
Immediately the window was opened and a ladder of rope was let down from it .
He must now get his bearings .
“ And I keep my word .
“ And he had five millions in your hands alone !
“ Well , how is he now ? ” asked he .
Why should I risk an imprudent step ?
“ Countess , ” returned Franz , totally unheeding her raillery , “ I asked you a short time since if you knew any particulars respecting the Albanian lady opposite ; I must now beseech you to inform me who and what is her husband ? ” “ Nay , ” answered the countess , “ I know no more of him than yourself. ” “ Perhaps you never before noticed him ? ” “ What a question—so truly French !
The moon lighted the group .
A Letter from Charles the First .
“ Madame , ” replied Monte Cristo gravely , and gazing earnestly on the two liquid pearls that trickled down Julie ’ s cheeks , “ had Lord Wilmore seen what I now see , he would become attached to life , for the tears you shed would reconcile him to mankind ; ” and he held out his hand to Julie , who gave him hers , carried away by the look and accent of the count .
Do not copy , display , perform , distribute or redistribute this electronic work , or any part of this electronic work , without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg™ License .
“ Stay where you are , I will tell you. ” Mme .
As for that Benedetto , who so grossly belied his name , have you never made any effort to trace out whither he has gone , or what has become of him ? ” “ No ; far from wishing to learn whither he has betaken himself , I should shun the possibility of meeting him as I would a wild beast .
On each side of the choir and behind the gratings opening into the convent was assembled the whole community of the Carmelites , who listened to the divine service , and mingled their chant with the chant of the priests , without seeing the profane , or being seen by them .
“ No false generosity , count !
“ We did better than that , sir , ” said the old sailor respectfully ; “ we put the helm up to run before the tempest ; ten minutes after we struck our top-sails and scudded under bare poles. ” “ The vessel was very old to risk that , ” said the Englishman .
There were four Musketeers on the bottom steps , amusing themselves with the following exercise , while ten or twelve of their comrades waited upon the landing place to take their turn in the sport .
But , ” pursued Danglars with one of his sinister smiles , “ an order for unlimited credit calls for something like caution on the part of the banker to whom that order is given .
A secret may , by chance , be betrayed by gentlemen ; but it is almost always sold by lackeys. ” “ Porthos ’ s plan appears to me to be impracticable , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ inasmuch as I am myself ignorant of what instructions I can give you .
He found the door of his passage open , sprang up the stairs and knocked softly in a manner agreed upon between him and his lackey .
Some hours afterwards it began again , nearer and more distinct .
At the moment he re-entered , the sentinel who guarded the door put his head through the opening , curious as to what the king was doing .
Meanwhile , oblige me by a sight of one of these _tavolettas_. ” “ Nothing can be easier than to comply with your excellency ’ s wish , ” said the landlord , opening the door of the chamber ; “ I have caused one to be placed on the landing , close by your apartment. ” Then , taking the tablet from the wall , he handed it to Franz , who read as follows : “ ‘ The public is informed that on Wednesday , February 23rd , being the first day of the Carnival , executions will take place in the Piazza del Popolo , by order of the Tribunal of the Rota , of two persons , named Andrea Rondolo , and Peppino , otherwise called Rocca Priori ; the former found guilty of the murder of a venerable and exemplary priest , named Don César Torlini , canon of the church of St. John Lateran ; and the latter convicted of being an accomplice of the atrocious and sanguinary bandit , Luigi Vampa , and his band .
IN WHICH M. SÉGUIER , KEEPER OF THE SEALS , LOOKS MORE THAN ONCE FOR THE BELL Chapter XVII .
I will take the whole world as a witness of your crime , and that until I have found an avenger. ’ “ ‘ You are a prostitute , ’ said he , in a voice of thunder , ‘ and you shall undergo the punishment of prostitutes !
“ You were the tool of those cowards who dared not kill her themselves ?
As for Fernand himself , he seemed to be enduring the tortures of the damned ; unable to rest , he was among the first to quit the table , and , as though seeking to avoid the hilarious mirth that rose in such deafening sounds , he continued , in utter silence , to pace the farther end of the salon .
Although almost engaged to the leaders of the Fronde he had not gone so far but that retreat was possible should the court offer him the advantages for which he was ambitious and to which the coadjutorship was but a stepping-stone .
He reached the hedge and hid himself behind it ; in passing by the house where the scene which we have related took place , he remarked that the window was again lighted up and he was convinced that Aramis had not yet returned to his own apartment and that when he did it would not be alone .
So blind were his contemporaries that they regarded the cardinal ’ s death as a deliverance ; and I , even I , opposed the designs of the great man who held the destinies of France within the hollow of his hand .
Chapter LXI .
“ Now , D ’ Herblay , ” said Athos , “ dismount and come here. ” Aramis dismounted and went to Porthos , whilst Athos approached D ’ Artagnan .
This time there could be no doubt ; D ’ Artagnan was really insulted .
You will take a biscuit with it , will you not ? ” “ Yes , I will take a biscuit , as you are so obliging. ” Monte Cristo rang ; Baptistin appeared .
Anybody may possess a five-franc piece. ” “ But do you suppose I carry five hundred francs about with me ?
He had only to step over the corpse , enter the boudoir , take the child in his arms , and flee far , far away .
But what did you do yesterday after you left me ? ” “ I went to Tortoni ’ s , where , as I expected , I found Beauchamp and Château-Renaud .
It was our strength , our intelligence , our life , in short , that we promised .
Does he correspond with Aramis ?
“ How do you mean ? ” “ The receipt of M. de Monte Cristo is as good as money ; take it to Rothschild ’ s or Lafitte ’ s , and they will take it off your hands at once. ” “ What , though payable at Rome ? ” “ Certainly ; it will only cost you a discount of 5,000 or 6,000 francs. ” The receiver started back .
“ Yes , I will tell you all ; but take away the young man ; I can not endure his presence. ” “ He is going with me .
Then , while passing , he had cast a rapid , investigating glance into the kitchen ; and he was obliged to confess to himself , to the shame of the procurator ’ s wife and his own regret , that he did not see that fire , that animation , that bustle , which when a good repast is on foot prevails generally in that sanctuary of good living .
Suddenly D ’ Artagnan touched something warm , which moved .
“ At all events , if you want me , remember the Rue Tiquetonne , Hotel de la Chevrette. ” “ And I shall be at the convent of Jesuits ; from six in the morning to eight at night come by the door .
I am afraid for the king ’ s safety ; place yourself close to the coach door on the right. ” “ Reassure yourself , madame , I will answer for the king ’ s safety. ” As he left the queen ’ s presence Bernouin summoned him to the cardinal .
His arms became stiff , his legs lost their flexibility , and he was almost breathless .
There is not one of those women , Egyptian , Turkish , or Greek , whom here you call ‘ good women , ’ who do not know how , by means of chemistry , to stupefy a doctor , and in psychology to amaze a confessor. ” “ Really , ” said Madame de Villefort , whose eyes sparkled with strange fire at this conversation .
“ Adieu , sir , ” she said .
“ You are right ; it is not you who should apprise M. Danglars , it is I. ” “ Do not do so , reverend sir. ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because you would bring us to ruin. ” “ And you think that to save such villains as you I will become an abettor of their plot , an accomplice in their crimes ? ” “ Reverend sir , ” said Caderousse , drawing still nearer .
It is difficult to form an idea of the perfect change that had taken place .
Midnight sounded , and almost at the same time the bell was rung in Milady ’ s chamber .
Louis XIV .
“ But he knows it all now , ” interrupted Caderousse ; “ they say the dead know everything. ” There was a brief silence ; the abbé rose and paced up and down pensively , and then resumed his seat .
“ You are in constant communication with the Baron Danglars ? ” the count inquired of Albert de Morcerf .
No , no , be easy on that score .
Upon his return to Haydée he found her still very pale .
Another person was confined in the Château at the same time , but he was not wicked , he was only a poor mad priest. ” “ Ah , indeed ? —mad ! ” repeated Monte Cristo ; “ and what was his mania ? ” “ He offered millions to anyone who would set him at liberty. ” Monte Cristo raised his eyes , but he could not see the heavens ; there was a stone veil between him and the firmament .
The prince awaited him there .
The count advanced , smiling , into the centre of the room , and approached Albert , who hastened towards him holding out his hand in a ceremonial manner .
“ Does Monsieur le Comte de la Fere live here ? ” asked Planchet .
’ tis a comfort , ” said the Gascon , “ since we shall not die of thirst .
At the same minute , one of the little windows of the Hôtel de Ville was thrown open , and the head of a gendarme appeared .
The fee is owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark , but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation .
We will cross Switzerland , and go down into Italy by the Saint-Gothard .
I am not mistaken ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan ! ” cried Rochefort .
It must be done .
“ Alone ? ” asked Athos .
“ Yes , ” replied Noirtier .
I ridiculous ?
He was travelling fast enough to cover a great deal of ground without exciting suspicion .
Morrel called her , and she ran to the gate .
The queen entered and D ’ Artagnan remained at the door .
“ Then I must wait ? ” asked the young man .
Luigi Vampa ’ s Bill of Fare We awake from every sleep except the one dreaded by Danglars .
Besides these , a casket of magnificent goldwork , with the same arms as the sword and the portrait , formed a middle ornament to the mantelpiece , and assorted badly with the rest of the furniture .
Rob your master , eat his sweetmeats , and drink his wine ; but , by Jove !
D ’ Artagnan , although he was not a Musketeer , performed the duty of one with remarkable punctuality .
It looks very neat on a black coat buttoned up. ” “ And makes you resemble the Prince of Wales or the Duke of Reichstadt. ” “ It is for that reason you see me so early. ” “ Because you have the order of Charles III. , and you wish to announce the good news to me ? ” “ No , because I passed the night writing letters , —five-and-twenty despatches .
“ My father howled aloud , plunged his fingers into the holes which the balls had made , and tore up one of the planks entire .
It was from Mme .
“ I wished to explain this plan to you on the day you received my first invitation ; but you did not come .
You call yourself , in Paris , the Count of Monte Cristo ; in Italy , Sinbad the Sailor ; in Malta , I forget what .
But since you possess that virtue , why the devil don ’ t you make use of it with respect to her Majesty ?
Happily he did not meet anyone .
At length , after winding about for a minute or two , Mme .
In fifteen days at most , Rochefort would be back ; besides , during that fifteen days she would have time to think how she could best avenge herself on the four friends .
Bonacieux saw that she had gone too far , and she was terrified at having communicated so much .
“ It is not here ! ” he cried .
“ Look attentively , then , at this gentleman. ” The old man fixed his scrutinizing gaze with slight astonishment on Morrel .
“ Yes , my lord , my mother , ” replied the young man , advancing into the room until he was face to face with Lord de Winter , and crossing his arms .
“ I don ’ t think the sides are equal. ” “ Impossible , for three reasons , ” replied Athos .
“ No ; I make you my lieutenant-general , ” said the king .
Then D ’ Artagnan ceased knocking , and prayed with an accent so full of anxiety and promises , terror and cajolery , that his voice was of a nature to reassure the most fearful .
He knew this was the last struggle .
A man was seated with his elbow leaning on the column , and was reading with his back turned to the arcades , through the openings of which the new-comers contemplated him .
The poor devil would eat nothing , from fear. ” “ It is incredible ! ” “ No , my dear fellow , it is not at all incredible .
All that is in this grotto , my friend , my house in the Champs-Élysées , and my château at Tréport , are the marriage gifts bestowed by Edmond Dantès upon the son of his old master , Morrel .
His eyes rested upon the spot where had stood his bed , since then removed , and behind the bed the new stones indicated where the breach made by the Abbé Faria had been .
Take twenty-five of them , Aramis , and give me the remaining twenty-five. ” “ All right ; I am glad to see you are of my opinion .
All this I did scrupulously .
And , to complete his resemblance with the fantastic heroes of the English poet , the count seemed to have the power of fascination .
Chapter LVII .
Another might threaten to seek M. Franz , to provoke him , and to fight with him ; all that would be folly .
I bought some Spanish shares .
“ Ah ! ” said Porthos , “ let us hear what he says. ” D ’ Artagnan opened the letter and read as follows : “ Dear D ’ Artagnan , dear Du Vallon , my good friends , perhaps this may be the last time that you will ever hear from me .
In twenty minutes they were on the spot named .
I recognized Monsieur d ’ Artagnan .
Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg : 1.E.1 .
Everything fell out as Mme .
Conclusion .
From the signs of respect the valet paid him , he saw that his note had produced a good effect .
Grimaud placed the pie before the duke , who took a knife with a silver blade to raise the upper crust ; but La Ramee , who was afraid of any harm happening to this fine work of art , passed his knife , which had an iron blade , to the duke .
He addressed about twelve words to him ; Grimaud answered in four .
Oh , Maximilian , how can you jest at a time when we have such deep cause for uneasiness ? ” “ Heaven keep me from jesting with that which is far dearer to me than life itself !
Well , sir , you ought to know that we no longer have a police , since we are no longer at Paris. ” “ I think your majesty will have no need to apply to the police to know where my friends are , but that if you will deign to interrogate the cardinal he can reply without any further inquiry than into his own recollections. ” “ But , God forgive me ! ” cried Anne , with that disdainful curl of the lips peculiar to her , “ I believe that you are yourself interrogating. ” “ Yes , madame , here I have a right to do so , for it concerns Monsieur d ’ Artagnan—-d ’ Artagnan , ” he repeated , in such a manner as to bow the regal brow with recollections of the weak and erring woman .
“ Marquise , ” said Villefort , approaching his future mother-in-law , “ I request your pardon for thus leaving you .
He hoped to meet with M. de Monte Cristo either in the lobby or on the stairs .
Why , Edmond Dantès and myself were intimate friends ! ” exclaimed Caderousse , whose countenance flushed darkly as he caught the penetrating gaze of the abbé fixed on him , while the clear , calm eye of the questioner seemed to dilate with feverish scrutiny .
I am fearfully exhausted and debilitated by this attack. ” “ Be of good cheer , ” replied Dantès ; “ your strength will return. ” And as he spoke he seated himself near the bed beside Faria , and took his hands .
“ 25th April , 149 ’ ” “ Well ! ” said Faria , when the young man had finished reading it .
Then there is his son , Andrea , a charming young man , about your own age , viscount , bearing the same title as yourself , and who is making his entry into the Parisian world , aided by his father ’ s millions .
I drew my knife from my pocket again , opened it , and made ready to strike .
I know that name—— ” “ A son of Monsieur de Broussel ’ s servant , and a lad that , I promise you , in a revolt will not give away his share to the dogs. ” “ Is he not a singing boy at Notre Dame ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Fortunately , as D ’ Artagnan had thought , it was not dangerous .
There , there midnight sounds !
But how , unless a miracle should restore your speech , your gesture , your movement , how can you , chained to that armchair , dumb and motionless , oppose this marriage ? ” A smile lit up the old man ’ s face , a strange smile of the eyes in a paralyzed face .
But I did so because I was happy , because I had not courted death , because to be cast upon a bed of rocks and seaweed seemed terrible , because I was unwilling that I , a creature made for the service of God , should serve for food to the gulls and ravens .
I promise you that to make up for her want of loyalty , I will be most inflexibly severe ; ” then casting an expressive glance at his betrothed , which seemed to say , “ Fear not , for your dear sake my justice shall be tempered with mercy , ” and receiving a sweet and approving smile in return , Villefort departed with paradise in his heart .
“ Impossible ?
I had the honor of asking you why you altered your costume .
D ’ Artagnan then remembered the injunction : “ If you value your own life or that of those who love you , remain motionless , and as if you had seen nothing. ” He stopped , therefore , trembling not for himself but for the poor woman who had evidently exposed herself to great danger by appointing this rendezvous .
Oh , woe to me ! ” “ Yes ; you are now on the right path , ” said the count , crossing his arms over his broad chest ; “ search—search ! ” “ But what have I done to you ? ” exclaimed Villefort , whose mind was balancing between reason and insanity , in that cloud which is neither a dream nor reality ; “ what have I done to you ?
It only remained to put it to the vote , when the president resumed : ‘ Gentlemen and you , monsieur , —you will not be displeased , I presume , to listen to one who calls himself a very important witness , and who has just presented himself .
Now we have in a dungeon about twenty feet distant , and to which you descend by another stair , an old abbé , formerly leader of a party in Italy , who has been here since 1811 , and in 1813 he went mad , and the change is astonishing .
The truth was , that the anticipated pleasures of the Carnival , with the “ Holy Week ” that was to succeed it , so filled every fair breast , as to prevent the least attention being bestowed even on the business of the stage .
“ Your majesty wishes , then—— ” “ You to say what you would do in her place , ” Mazarin hastened to reply .
“ Were you present during the last struggle ? ” asked M. d ’ Avrigny .
He took a hundred and fifty men and attempted to go out by the Pont du Louvre , but there he met Rochefort and his fifty horsemen , attended by more than five hundred men .
You know that with bankers nothing but a written document will be valid. ” “ I will do better than that , ” said Albert ; “ my mother is wishing to go to the sea-side—what day is fixed for your dinner ? ” “ Saturday. ” “ This is Tuesday—well , tomorrow evening we leave , and the day after we shall be at Tréport .
If you wish to see me the king ’ s attorney , you must desire for me some of those violent and dangerous diseases from the cure of which so much honor redounds to the physician. ” At this moment , and as though the utterance of Villefort ’ s wish had sufficed to effect its accomplishment , a servant entered the room , and whispered a few words in his ear .
He traversed a corridor , crossed a grand saloon , entered a library , and found himself in the presence of a man seated at a desk and writing .
“ You seek me , sir , ” said he .
Teresa alone ruled by a look , a word , a gesture , this impetuous character , which yielded beneath the hand of a woman , and which beneath the hand of a man might have broken , but could never have been bended .
“ ‘ And who are you ? ’ “ ‘ Eh , _pardieu ! _ Joannes , the jeweller. ’ “ ‘ Well , and you said I offended the good God , ’ said La Carconte with a horrid smile .
It was that of La Carconte .
Beauchamp pulled out his watch .
‘ Begone , if you do not desire to see me dash my head against that wall before your eyes ! ’ “ ‘ Very well , it is your own doing .
The reader must now cross the Seine with us and follow us to the door of the Carmelite Convent in the Rue Saint Jacques .
And Prince Cavalcanti sang with Mademoiselle Eugénie yesterday ?
and had the dark and wondrous island indeed faithfully guarded its precious secret ?
“ Ah , _pardieu ! _ Is that you ? ” said Porthos to D ’ Artagnan .
Andrea appeared in despair , but consoled himself when the hostess assured him that No .
D ’ Artagnan returned to help Porthos , if Porthos needed help ; but Porthos , for his part , had done his work as conscientiously as D ’ Artagnan .
“ It is a quarter of an hour ’ s journey from here to the city , consequently a quarter of an hour ’ s journey from the city to hither .
Good-bye .
He found outside the door the old servant , to whom Valentine had given directions .
“ Ho , friend ! ” said Benedetto .
When the three persons he expected had entered , he looked at the door , which his valet immediately closed .
A portion of the troops had already arrived and the remainder was expected from moment to moment .
Mme .
“ Oh , you are an angel ! ” exclaimed the young man .
On the king ’ s service. ” The musketeer touched his cap and went away to execute the orders thus received .
Feverish and excited , I rang at the door .
There terminates , at least to the present moment , the duty I had to fulfill toward you ; the rest concerns another person. ” “ And who is that other person ? ” asked Milady , warmly .
Aramis , in a black gown , his head enveloped in a sort of round flat cap , not much unlike a _calotte_ , was seated before an oblong table , covered with rolls of paper and enormous volumes in folio .
In this frame of mind , grateful for the accidental meeting with Planchet , pleased with himself , D ’ Artagnan reached Notre Dame .
what a beautiful creature ! ” cried Valentine ; “ why did you not bring him close to the gate , so that I could talk to him and pat him ? ” “ He is , as you see , a very valuable animal , ” said Maximilian .
If we wanted to conceal the noble action this purse commemorates , we should not expose it thus to view .
[ 24 ] Frédérick Lemaître—French actor ( 1800-1876 ) .
It is all in beginning .
This letter was so important that it made them forsake their cards and their dice on the drumhead .
The baroness was astonished .
The queen was still standing when he entered ; but scarcely had she perceived him then she reseated herself in her armchair , and made a sign to her women to resume their cushions and stools , and with an air of supreme hauteur , said , “ What do you desire , monsieur , and with what object do you present yourself here ? ” “ To make , madame , in the name of the king , and without prejudice to the respect which I have the honor to owe to your Majesty a close examination into all your papers. ” “ How , monsieur , an investigation of my papers—mine !
The words that Parry had read assured them that their presence was understood by the king and was assigned to its real motive .
Then he placed the gibbet in the middle of the room , bursting with laughter .
You appear to think much of your horse .
who can tell whether Mazarin may not take advantage of this rendezvous to seize us ? ” “ What !
I have done all in my power to ameliorate them and yet the belief of the public , you say , is that they proceed from me , an unhappy foreigner , who has been unable to please the French .
He rejoined this woman ; they fled together into Berry , and there he obtained a little curacy .
“ You are right , your excellency , ” he said ; “ this must be one of your friends. ” Then going to Albert , he touched him on the shoulder , saying , “ Will your excellency please to awaken ? ” Albert stretched out his arms , rubbed his eyelids , and opened his eyes .
“ What can I do for you , Valentine ? ” Valentine looked around her ; she saw the deepest terror depicted in Noirtier ’ s eyes .
You , sir , know how necessary subordination is in any large establishment of servants. ” D ’ Artagnan smiled ; Porthos wanted to lengthen out his names , Mousqueton to cut his short .
“ Gad , I should be very happy , but I have my companion , Monsieur du Vallon , and the two prisoners , whom I can not leave .
What do you say ?
You have seen nothing that resembles him , because he works by secret springs , and moves by hidden ways .
However , a few instants after she had finished her religious song , Milady thought she heard a profound sigh .
Athos remained a Musketeer under the command of D ’ Artagnan till the year 1633 , at which period , after a journey he made to Touraine , he also quit the service , under the pretext of having inherited a small property in Roussillon .
Now , for my part , I met them in the lobby after the conclusion of the piece ; and hang me , if I can guess where you took your notions of the other world from .
Well , it is the same with hashish ; only eat for a week , and nothing in the world will seem to you to equal the delicacy of its flavor , which now appears to you flat and distasteful .
“ The idea of asking how I hear the news , ” he said .
The army , I will answer for it , will be but little pleased at being exposed to rigorous treatment on account of police affairs. ” The expression was imprudent ; but M. de Tréville launched it with knowledge of his cause .
“ You did not see her ?
The count understood him .
One day he miraculously left the prison , transformed , rich , powerful .
He was not mistaken ; as he entered his bedroom a man was getting in by the window .
But we must say farewell , Edmond , and let us part. ” “ Before I leave you , Mercédès , have you no request to make ? ” said the count .
I know she was loaded with cotton , and that she took in her freight at Alexandria from Pastret ’ s warehouse , and at Smyrna from Pascal ’ s ; that is all I was obliged to know , and I beg I may not be asked for any further particulars. ” “ Now I recollect , ” said the afflicted old father ; “ my poor boy told me yesterday he had got a small case of coffee , and another of tobacco for me ! ” “ There , you see , ” exclaimed Danglars .
you assert a great deal , ” said Mazarin .
Did I not tell you that she was the goddaughter of Monsieur Laporte , the confidential man of the queen ?
At the voice of this last speaker , Grimaud started and felt a shudder creeping through his very marrow .
They arrived thus , screened by the lining of the trench , till they came within a hundred paces of the bastion .
All the way , and in proportion as the corridors became more deserted , D ’ Artagnan wished to stop the young woman , seize her and gaze upon her , were it only for a minute ; but quick as a bird she glided between his hands , and when he wished to speak to her , her finger placed upon her mouth , with a little imperative gesture full of grace , reminded him that he was under the command of a power which he must blindly obey , and which forbade him even to make the slightest complaint .
Indeed , I feel quite sure , from the cut of his clothes , they are made by a first-rate Paris tailor—probably Blin or Humann .
“ To my grandfather ’ s room. ” “ I in M. Noirtier ’ s apartment ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Can you mean it , Valentine ? ” “ I have long wished it ; he is my only remaining friend and we both need his help , —come. ” “ Be careful , Valentine , ” said Morrel , hesitating to comply with the young girl ’ s wishes ; “ I now see my error—I acted like a madman in coming in here .
Felton took the bag and threw it to the foot of the wall .
Tell me , ” cried Villefort , fixing his eyes more steadfastly on her than he had ever done before , “ did you ever reveal to anyone our connection ? ” “ Never , to anyone. ” “ You understand me , ” replied Villefort , affectionately ; “ when I say anyone , —pardon my urgency , —to anyone living I mean ? ” “ Yes , yes , I understand very well , ” ejaculated the baroness ; “ never , I swear to you. ” “ Were you ever in the habit of writing in the evening what had transpired in the morning ?
I should hate and despise myself as a coward did I desert the brave fellow in his present extremity. ” “ And what do you mean to do ? ” “ To surround the scaffold with twenty of my best men , who , at a signal from me , will rush forward directly Peppino is brought for execution , and , by the assistance of their stilettos , drive back the guard , and carry off the prisoner. ” “ That seems to me as hazardous as uncertain , and convinces me that my scheme is far better than yours. ” “ And what is your excellency ’ s project ? ” “ Just this .
What hatred she distills !
Gondy raised his hand and demanded silence .
I am hungry , that is all. ” “ Pardieu , if that is all , I am hungry , too ; but it is not everything to be hungry , one must find something to eat , unless we browse on the grass , like our horses—— ” “ Ah ! ” exclaimed Aramis , who was not quite so indifferent to the good things of the earth as Athos , “ do you remember , when we were at Parpaillot , the beautiful oysters that we ate ? ” “ And the legs of mutton of the salt marshes , ” said Porthos , smacking his lips .
Dantès continued at his post in spite of the presence of the pilot , until this manœuvre was completed , and then he added , “ Half-mast the colors , and square the yards ! ” “ You see , ” said Danglars , “ he fancies himself captain already , upon my word. ” “ And so , in fact , he is , ” said the owner .
“ Barrois , ” said Valentine , “ my grandfather has told me to open that drawer in the secretaire , but there is a secret spring in it , which you know—will you open it ? ” Barrois looked at the old man .
The four philosophers looked at one another in a state of bewilderment .
All Paris were in the streets .
According to the count ’ s directions , Danglars was waited on by Vampa , who brought him the best wine and fruits of Italy ; then , having conducted him to the road , and pointed to the post-chaise , left him leaning against a tree .
He turned up a king .
I may sacrifice my soul , but what matters it ? ” added Monte Cristo .
If by any good luck you lay your hand on a certain man named Mordaunt , tell Porthos to take him into a corner and to wring his neck .
“ Trembling and awe-struck , Caderousse hastily shut the door and returned to his guest , while La Carconte lighted a candle by the smouldering ashes that glimmered on the hearth .
The marchioness drained the glass at a single draught , and then turned on her pillow , repeating , “ The notary , the notary ! ” M. de Villefort left the room , and Valentine seated herself at the bedside of her grandmother .
“ Ah , indeed ? ” said Cavalcanti .
“ Yes , that you sent me. ” “ We sent you wine ? ” “ You know very well—the wine from the hills of Anjou. ” “ Yes , I know what brand you are talking about. ” “ The wine you prefer. ” “ Well , in the absence of champagne and chambertin , you must content yourselves with that. ” “ And so , connoisseurs in wine as we are , we have sent you some Anjou wine ? ” said Porthos .
Without losing sight of her for an instant , the concierge took a whistle from his pocket as soon as they entered the court , and blew it .
As for M. Danglars , absorbed in an interesting conversation with M. Cavalcanti , he paid no attention to anything that was passing .
The count and Ali ate in haste a crust of bread and drank a glass of Spanish wine ; then Monte Cristo slipped aside one of the movable panels , which enabled him to see into the adjoining room .
“ Women fancy they have talent because they have managed two or three intrigues without being the talk of Paris !
“ Sir , ” replied Olivain , respectfully , “ allow me to remark that we have already much fatigued the horses this morning .
Noirtier , for whom France was a vast chess-board , from which pawns , rooks , knights , and queens were to disappear , so that the king was checkmated—M .
de Saint-Méran is dead , ” answered the old marchioness , without preface and without expression ; she appeared to be stupefied .
Athos , assisted by Porthos , who lifted him up like a feather , arrived at the top .
A ball had passed through his breast .
She knew him ; she knew that at her return from a fruitless journey it would be in vain to tell him of her imprisonment , in vain to enlarge upon the sufferings she had undergone .
Then , if he persists , notwithstanding all this—as that is , as I have said , the limit of my mission—I shall have nothing to do but to pray God to work a miracle for the salvation of France .
She therefore contented herself with saying that M. Noirtier having at the commencement of the discussion been attacked by a sort of apoplectic fit , the affair would necessarily be deferred for some days longer .
She ran to the window and opened it .
They ask my age ; I tell it .
He took to his heels , and was soon at M. de Tréville ’ s ; but instead of going into the saloon with the rest of the crowd , he asked to be introduced to M. de Tréville ’ s office .
If that does not suit you , you can point out what other hours you prefer , and in this respect your wishes will be complied with. ” “ But am I to remain always alone in this vast and dismal chamber ? ” asked Milady .
Are you a man of imagination—a poet ?
Then , on the anniversary of the day on which I had been insulted , I hung my cassock on a peg , assumed the costume of a cavalier , and went to a ball given by a lady friend of mine and to which I knew my man was invited .
Then there are those for which chance sometimes affords opportunity , and those are the best of all .
“ 25th April , 1498 .
A PROCURATOR ’ S DINNER Chapter XXXIII .
Why , the thing has made a tremendous noise. ” “ Yes , I heard it spoken of , but I did not know the details , and then no one can be more ignorant than I am of the affairs in the Bourse. ” 30251m “ Then you do not speculate ? ” “ I ? —How could I speculate when I already have so much trouble in regulating my income ?
“ How do you feel this morning ? ” he inquired .
These words of Felton ’ s passed like ice through her veins .
“ Tomorrow , ” said he , “ you will be avenged , or I shall be dead. ” “ No , ” said she , “ you will avenge me ; but you will not be dead .
The young woman continued to advance ; and in addition to the lightness of her step , which had betrayed her , she emitted a little cough which denoted a sweet voice .
He could not endure it , and sent Parry to ask the sentinel to beg the workmen to strike more gently and not disturb the last slumber of one who had been their king .
Aramis seemed to await a comfortable digestion ; D ’ Artagnan , to be preparing his exordium .
So you and the cardinal have been talking about me ?
“ But , ” said he , “ first allow me to embrace you as your daughter did just now. ” Noirtier ’ s expression could not be understood .
The sport was bad ; Franz only succeeded in killing a few partridges , and , like every unsuccessful sportsman , he returned to the boat very much out of temper .
You see this is a fit of apoplexy , and he might be saved if he could but be bled ! ” “ Has he eaten anything lately ? ” asked Madame de Villefort , eluding her husband ’ s question .
At midnight the two travelers were at Dammartin , but it was then too late to make inquiries—the host of the Cygne de la Croix had gone to bed .
Five corridors diverged like the rays of a star , and the walls , dug into niches , which were arranged one above the other in the shape of coffins , showed that they were at last in the catacombs .
How could I pronounce that word ?
“ Presently—there are not a sufficient number of people here yet ; we shall be remarked. ” At this moment the door opened and in walked the coadjutor .
“ Place that table there , ” said a voice which the prisoner recognized as that of Felton .
Excuse me , sirs , this is not a servant , but a friend .
D ’ Artagnan made all these remarks with the rapidity of a most minute observer , and doubtless from an instinctive feeling that this stranger was destined to have a great influence over his future life .
Thus , the greater number of a man ’ s errors come before him disguised under the specious form of necessity ; then , after error has been committed in a moment of excitement , of delirium , or of fear , we see that we might have avoided and escaped it .
Villefort rose , or rather sprang , from his chair , hastily opened one of the drawers of his desk , emptied all the gold it contained into his pocket , stood motionless an instant , his hand pressed to his head , muttered a few inarticulate sounds , and then , perceiving that his servant had placed his cloak on his shoulders , he sprang into the carriage , ordering the postilions to drive to M. de Saint-Méran ’ s .
You are dressed ; it is now my turn to dress myself. ’ 20125m “ Teresa was clothed from head to foot in the garb of the Count of San-Felice ’ s daughter .
Athos as a Diplomatist .
“ Look here , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan ; “ here is Monsieur de Bragelonne , who determined at all risks to aid the arrest of Broussel and whom I had great difficulty to prevent defending Monsieur de Comminges. ” “ The devil ! ” said Porthos ; “ and his guardian , what would he have said to that ? ” “ Do you hear ? ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan ; “ become a Frondist , my friend , belong to the Fronde , and remember that I fill the count ’ s place in everything ; ” and he jingled his money .
The countess took Albert to meet Madame Danglars .
But I feel very deeply that this fish which I go and sell , and with the produce of which I buy the flax I spin , —I feel very keenly , Fernand , that this is charity. ” “ And if it were , Mercédès , poor and lone as you are , you suit me as well as the daughter of the first shipowner or the richest banker of Marseilles !
Why ?
Mousqueton , who knew nothing of what was going on in the chateau , wondered that the idea had not occurred to him sooner .
They knew all they wished to know ; the bastion was guarded .
“ The noise increased ; steps were heard approaching nearer and nearer ; they were descending the steps leading to the cavern .
After a minute or two they were able to distinguish a man , who approached them , swimming vigorously .
Every door was opened to him .
Everything considered , I am not sorry to retain Grimaud ; he is accustomed to my ways , and I am particular .
At the sight of these men the Englishman started and advanced a step ; then restrained himself , and retired into the farthest and most obscure corner of the apartment .
You appear to be a brave young man ; besides , your fortune may perhaps be the result of your devotedness. ” “ I will do , without a promise and voluntarily , all that I can do to serve the king and be agreeable to the queen .
In truth , in a few minutes he heard steps approaching and low whispers .
I had sworn to die of hunger rather than part with these precious pledges ; but now that this ornament may be useful to him or his defenders , everything must be sacrificed .
I know you are not quite my friends , and I am sorry you are not so ; but I know you are brave and loyal gentlemen , and that confidence may be placed in you .
The dragoon and the Swiss followed him , and all their comrades followed the dragoon and the Swiss .
But to resume my story ; I turned towards my grandfather , as though to question him as to the cause of his emotion ; he looked expressively at the newspaper I had been reading .
After some hours of repose the sleepers were aroused by Athos .
Besides , I expect to lead your highness into places where you will have to walk. ” “ Come , then , ” said the prince ; “ let us lose no time. ” The peasant started off , running before the prince ’ s horse ; then , a hundred steps from the village , he took a narrow road hidden at the bottom of the valley .
28. ” No .
Fortunately he is a cunning fellow , that friend Caderousse. ” “ There you are beginning again to ramble , to talk again and again of the past !
“ You see it makes a very respectable appearance. ” “ _Pardieu_ , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ it will be a double amusing affair to save the queen with the cardinal ’ s money ! ” “ You are an amiable and charming young man , ” said Mme .
There , on turning round , D ’ Artagnan perceived that the two soldiers had disappeared .
See if he is still in the same place. ” Athos turned around with an effort ; the sight of the young man was evidently painful to him , and there he still was , in fact , on the rock , the beacon shedding around him , as it were , a doubtful aureole .
The light made the two swords appear like flashes of lightning ; as for the men , they were scarcely perceptible , the darkness was so great .
First love is accompanied by such excessive joy that unless the joy be allowed to overflow , it will stifle you .
“ Well , madame ? ” unhesitatingly repeated Debray .
“ Exordium , ” repeated the curate , for the sake of saying something .
Conferences .
Until then he had been sustained by rage , by his strength of mind , by despair , by the supreme agony which led the Titans to scale the heavens , and Ajax to defy the gods .
Now jump onto your horse , and let us overtake the carriage. ” This did not take long .
“ Twenty witnesses , ” added he , “ could attest the fact ” ; and he named several distinguished gentlemen , and among them was M. le Duc de la Trémouille .
In a short time the two unfortunate beasts , who had not eaten anything since the morning , made such a noise in raising and letting fall the knocker that the procurator ordered his errand boy to go and inquire in the neighborhood to whom this horse and mule belonged .
They began by walking through the apartments , many of which were fitted up in the Eastern style , with cushions and divans instead of beds , and pipes instead of furniture .
“ But go on signing , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I perceive that my story has caused a general emotion , and I beg to apologize to you , baroness , and to Mademoiselle Danglars. ” The baroness , who had signed , returned the pen to the notary .
At the end of an instant they heard a furious fusillade .
“ It was nearly three days since I had eaten or drunk anything .
Come , come , madame ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , seizing her hands , and surveying her with an ardent glance , “ come , be more generous .
Then a piercing cry escaped from his breast , and he cried , “ Still the hand of God. ” The presence of the two victims alarmed him ; he could not bear solitude shared only by two corpses .
On Tuesday , all those who through want of money , time , or enthusiasm , have not been to see the Carnival before , mingle in the gayety , and contribute to the noise and excitement .
I know nothing about it. ” “ You don ’ t know I quit the seminary ? ” “ Not at all. ” “ This is my story , then .
“ As regards the Marchesa Corsinari—— ” “ Really , ” said the major , “ difficulties seem to thicken upon us ; will she be wanted in any way ? ” “ No , sir , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ besides , has she not—— ” “ Yes , sir , ” said the major , “ she has—— ” 30127m “ Paid the last debt of nature ? ” “ Alas , yes , ” returned the Italian .
“ Rather say that you have served as an instrument to that accursed woman ; but I swear to you that this crime shall be her last. ” “ I don ’ t know what you mean , ” replied Felton , quietly , “ and I am ignorant of whom you are speaking , my Lord .
The president looked at his auditors .
But that which completed the almost masculine look Morcerf found so little to his taste , was a dark mole , of much larger dimensions than these freaks of nature generally are , placed just at the corner of her mouth ; and the effect tended to increase the expression of self-dependence that characterized her countenance .
Listen ; for ten years I dreamed each night the same dream .
Do you preach them ? ” “ No ; I sell them to those of my cloth who wish to become great orators. ” “ Ah , indeed !
“ Absolution comes not from him who administers it , but from God .
“ Shall we wait , or shall we charge ? ” “ Let us charge them , ” answered the Gascon .
Athos touched the shoulder of the vicomte .
“ Sir , ” he cried , scarcely able to believe his good fortune— “ sir , I can not understand your generosity ! ” “ Oh , it is very simple , my good fellow ; I have been a sailor , and your story touched me more than it would others. ” “ Then , sir , since you are so liberal , I ought to offer you something. ” 50227m “ What have you to offer to me , my friend ?
TRIAL Chapter LXVI .
“ Well , my poor friend , ” replied Beauchamp , “ I expected you. ” “ I need not say I think you are too faithful and too kind to have spoken of that painful circumstance .
Noirtier closed his eyes .
The procurator ’ s wife waited tremblingly .
You belong to the court , doubtless , yet I have never seen you at court .
But besides all this , in order that the instrument may not be contested , I am anxious to give it the greatest possible authenticity , therefore , one of my colleagues will help me , and , contrary to custom , will assist in the dictation of the testament .
When Albert returned to his mother , he found her in the boudoir reclining in a large velvet armchair , the whole room so obscure that only the shining spangle , fastened here and there to the drapery , and the angles of the gilded frames of the pictures , showed with some degree of brightness in the gloom .
“ Well , then , only fulfil your promise of rescuing Peppino , and henceforward you shall receive not only devotion , but the most absolute obedience from myself and those under me that one human being can render to another. ” “ Have a care how far you pledge yourself , my good friend , for I may remind you of your promise at some , perhaps , not very distant period , when I , in my turn , may require your aid and influence. ” “ Let that day come sooner or later , your excellency will find me what I have found you in this my heavy trouble ; and if from the other end of the world you but write me word to do such or such a thing , you may regard it as done , for done it shall be , on the word and faith of—— ” “ Hush ! ” interrupted the stranger ; “ I hear a noise. ” “ ’ Tis some travellers , who are visiting the Colosseum by torchlight. ” “ ’ Twere better we should not be seen together ; those guides are nothing but spies , and might possibly recognize you ; and , however I may be honored by your friendship , my worthy friend , if once the extent of our intimacy were known , I am sadly afraid both my reputation and credit would suffer thereby. ” “ Well , then , if you obtain the reprieve ? ” “ The middle window at the Café Rospoli will be hung with white damask , bearing a red cross. ” “ And if you fail ? ” “ Then all three windows will have yellow draperies. ” “ And then ? ” “ And then , my good fellow , use your daggers in any way you please , and I further promise you to be there as a spectator of your prowess. ” “ We understand each other perfectly , then .
You have two unruly prisoners there , sir. ” “ Unruly , ” Comminges smiled ; “ you wish to terrify me , I suppose .
Haydée was reclining upon soft downy cushions , covered with blue satin spotted with silver ; her head , supported by one of her exquisitely moulded arms , rested on the divan immediately behind her , while the other was employed in adjusting to her lips the coral tube of a rich narghile , through whose flexible pipe she drew the smoke fragrant by its passage through perfumed water .
There are in affluence a crowd of aristocratic cares and caprices which are highly becoming to beauty .
Great people only thank you for doing the impossible ; what ’ s possible , they say , they can effect themselves , and they are right .
Now that you are no longer beside me I am afraid every moment of erring .
I will go immediately and inform him of your arrival. ” And Philip , urged by his own curiosity , entered the gallery ; a second afterwards , Monte Cristo appeared on the threshold .
Think well of your reply , for should your eminence be mistaken , there might ensue most grave results for all of us. ” “ Along the wall , sir , ” said Mazarin , “ there will be no danger of losing yourselves. ” The three friends hastened on , but in a short time were obliged to slacken the pace .
My death , believe me , will not be the end of this atrocious misadventure. ” “ Where was the monk going ? ” asked Grimaud .
On perceiving the count he rose quickly .
The queen saw this , and doubtless her maternal heart translated the emotion , for addressing Raoul again : “ And no evil has happened to the young Count de Guiche ? ” she asked ; “ for not only is he our servant , as you say , sir , but more—he is one of our friends. ” “ No , madame , ” replied Raoul ; “ on the contrary , he gained great glory and had the honor of being embraced by his highness , the prince , on the field of battle. ” The young princess clapped her hands ; and then , ashamed of having been betrayed into such a demonstration of joy , she half turned away and bent over a vase of roses , as if to inhale their odor .
I then was ready to dismount , but it was too late ; I descended into the arms of the archers .
You allow me to give you this title ? ” continued the count in French , “ it is necessary to excite this man ’ s confidence. ” “ You can speak before me , ” said Franz ; “ I am a friend of the count ’ s. ” “ Good ! ” returned Peppino .
She still had her rich fair hair ; her large , animated , intelligent eyes , so often opened by intrigue , so often closed by the blindness of love .
But enough of money matters .
Our expedition lasted nearly six weeks ; we had been to Lucca to take in oil , to Leghorn for English cottons , and we ran our cargo without opposition , and returned home full of joy .
Ten paces from the door the cardinal made a sign to his esquire and the three Musketeers to halt .
He returned to France with the epaulet of sub-lieutenant , and as the protection of the general , who is in the highest favor , was accorded to him , he was a captain in 1823 , during the Spanish war—that is to say , at the time when Danglars made his early speculations .
One of the noble peers , who was familiar with the Arabic language , having studied it during the famous Egyptian campaign , followed with his eye as the translator read aloud : “ ‘ I , El-Kobbir , a slave-merchant , and purveyor of the harem of his highness , acknowledge having received for transmission to the sublime emperor , from the French lord , the Count of Monte Cristo , an emerald valued at eight hundred thousand francs ; as the ransom of a young Christian slave of eleven years of age , named Haydée , the acknowledged daughter of the late lord Ali Tepelini , pasha of Yanina , and of Vasiliki , his favorite ; she having been sold to me seven years previously , with her mother , who had died on arriving at Constantinople , by a French colonel in the service of the Vizier Ali Tepelini , named Fernand Mondego .
It seemed to him that heaven had at length taken pity on him , and had sent this noise to warn him on the very brink of the abyss .
It was only on the following day , at about ten o ’ clock in the morning , as he was starting to call on M. Deschamps , the notary , that he received from the postman a small billet , which he knew to be from Valentine , although he had not before seen her writing .
This house , in past years , did ours a great service , and has , I know not for what reason , always denied having rendered us this service. ” “ I shall be at your orders , ” said Monte Cristo bowing .
D ’ Artagnan could on no account consent to pull his bed to pieces again for Porthos , but for a consideration of four louis that the latter paid him for it , he consented that Porthos should share his couch with him .
In the meantime , my dear Lucien , here are cigars—contraband , of course—try them , and persuade the minister to sell us such instead of poisoning us with cabbage leaves. ” “ _Peste ! _ I will do nothing of the kind ; the moment they come from government you would find them execrable .
Now , I have confessed to these learned ecclesiastics , and that in all humility , that the duties of mounting guard and the service of the king have caused me to neglect study a little .
The Musketeers saluted Bicarat with their swords , and returned them to their sheaths .
I wish you to write from time to time to the captains in charge of the two vessels so as to keep them on the alert. ” “ And the steamboat ? ” “ She is at Châlons ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The same orders for her as for the two sailing vessels. ” “ Very good. ” “ When you have purchased the estate I desire , I want constant relays of horses at ten leagues apart along the northern and southern road. ” “ Your excellency may depend upon me. ” The Count made a gesture of satisfaction , descended the terrace steps , and sprang into his carriage , which was whirled along swiftly to the banker ’ s house .
We engaged our word ; our word included everything .
Valentine , with a color still heightened by emotion , entered the room just after her parents had quitted it .
He jumped out of bed and ran to the window .
A short time ago , while making researches in the Royal Library for my History of Louis XIV. , I stumbled by chance upon the Memoirs of M. d ’ Artagnan , printed—as were most of the works of that period , in which authors could not tell the truth without the risk of a residence , more or less long , in the Bastille—at Amsterdam , by Pierre Rouge .
Oh , tomorrow , tomorrow , I must have some pledge from you which will prove that you think of me ; and that you may not forget me , take this ! ” and she slipped a ring from her finger onto D ’ Artagnan ’ s .
He entered without knocking , or giving any other intimation of his presence , as if he had been a friend or the master of the place .
It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .
The latter were occupied in breaking up the pavement and stretching chains across the streets , when , headed by the coadjutor , appeared the Prince de Conti ( the brother of the Prince de Condé ) and the Duc de Longueville , his brother-in-law .
It was a frightful thing to see this wretch , leaving a long track of blood on the ground he passed over , pale with approaching death , trying to drag himself along without being seen to the body of his accomplice , which lay twenty paces from him .
“ Well , in a quarter of an hour he shall be with you. ” “ You will bring him , then ?
The baroness ascended the steps ; she felt herself strongly infected with the sadness which seemed to magnify her own , and still guided by the valet de chambre , who never lost sight of her for an instant , she was introduced to the magistrate ’ s study .
It is generally the case that what we most ardently desire is as ardently withheld from us by those who wish to obtain it , or from whom we attempt to snatch it .
“ Oh , you ’ ll know it someday , Aramis ; but at present I must imitate the discretion of ‘ the doctor ’ s niece. ’ ” Aramis smiled , as he remembered the tale he had told his friends on a certain evening .
“ Yes , ” replied the old man .
This time the poor girl did not even argue with D ’ Artagnan ; she gave it to him at once .
I call to witness the God who hears us , that on the contrary I am a fervent Catholic ! ” “ Then , madame , ” said the abbess , smiling , “ be reassured ; the house in which you are shall not be a very hard prison , and we will do all in our power to make you cherish your captivity .
“ Oh !
“ I killed one man , if I recollect rightly , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , with a look of inquiry directed to Athos ; “ another I disarmed or wounded , I don ’ t remember which. ” “ Wounded ! ” said Athos ; “ it was a phenomenon of skill. ” The young man would willingly have prolonged this conversation far into the night , but Athos pointed out to him that his guest must need repose .
He was a man between thirty-nine and forty years of age , of medium height but a very well proportioned figure ; with an intellectual and animated physiognomy ; his beard black , and his hair turning gray , as often happens when people have found life either too gay or too sad , more especially when they happen to be of swart complexion .
Some sang ballads about Mme .
One day , when , contrary to his custom , he had admitted Mercédès , and the poor girl , in spite of her own grief and despair , endeavored to console him , he said to her , — ‘ Be assured , my dear daughter , he is dead ; and instead of expecting him , it is he who is awaiting us ; I am quite happy , for I am the oldest , and of course shall see him first. ’ “ However well disposed a person may be , why , you see we leave off after a time seeing persons who are in sorrow , they make one melancholy ; and so at last old Dantès was left all to himself , and I only saw from time to time strangers go up to him and come down again with some bundle they tried to hide ; but I guessed what these bundles were , and that he sold by degrees what he had to pay for his subsistence .
“ My name is Edmond Dantès , ” replied the young man calmly ; “ I am mate of the _Pharaon_ , belonging to Messrs. Morrel & Son. ” “ Your age ? ” continued Villefort .
I descended rapidly ; although I had not seen Villefort ’ s face , I recognized him by the beating of my heart .
“ We shall go together , shall we not ? ” said Albert to the count .
“ In the first place , ” said Athos , “ let us leave this chamber ; the dead are not agreeable company , particularly when they have died a violent death. ” “ Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I commit the corpse of this poor devil to your care .
It seemed as though my soul were already hovering over my body , my eyes , which I tried to open , closed against my will , and what will appear impossible above all to you , sir , I saw , with my eyes shut , in the spot where you are now standing , issuing from that corner where there is a door leading into Madame Villefort ’ s dressing-room—I saw , I tell you , silently enter , a white figure. ” Valentine screamed .
Already rich , he held a high official situation , though only twenty-seven .
“ Read , ” she said .
“ My horses , ” said Monte Cristo .
The Rain of Blood As the jeweller returned to the apartment , he cast around him a scrutinizing glance—but there was nothing to excite suspicion , if it did not exist , or to confirm it , if it were already awakened .
The general alighted , leaning on the arm of the president , of whose dignity he was not aware , considering him simply as a member of the club ; they went through the alley , mounted a flight of stairs , and entered the assembly-room .
“ We must go , ” said the superb lord of Bracieux , “ lest they should say we were afraid .
“ I desire to know if the confession of Charles Stuart is at an end ? ” said the stranger .
“ Yes , monsieur , we are cousins , ” said Porthos , without being disconcerted , as he had never reckoned upon being received enthusiastically by the husband .
“ Mousqueton ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , “ draw up the blinds of his majesty ’ s carriage. ” “ It is he ! ” cried Porthos .
Sit down , madame , and let us talk , as the cardinal said. ” Milady , under the influence of inexpressible terror , sat down without uttering a word .
Tell me , I entreat. ” “ But my orders. ” “ Your orders do not forbid your telling me what I must know in ten minutes , in half an hour , or an hour .
“ Yes , happy as myself , ” said he .
I have seen you , and invited you without any ceremony , when you instantly answered that it would be impossible for you to accept , as you were going to Tréport. ” “ Well , then , that is settled ; but you will come and call on my mother before tomorrow ? ” “ Before tomorrow ? —that will be a difficult matter to arrange , besides , I shall just be in the way of all the preparations for departure. ” “ Well , you can do better .
Chapter L. The Interview .
“ And now , prisoner , will you consent to tell your name ? ” said the president .
Do you not know that all Paris knew it yesterday , and the day before it had already transpired on the Bourse , and M. Danglars ( I do not know by what means that man contrives to obtain intelligence as soon as we do ) made a million ! ” “ And you another order , for I see you have a blue ribbon at your button-hole. ” “ Yes ; they sent me the order of Charles III. , ” returned Debray carelessly .
The young girl is lovely and her tears only embellish her ; the lady appears to be about forty years of age , the girl about fourteen .
In the first one handy , provided it is safe , ” said the commissary , with an indifference which penetrated poor Bonacieux with horror .
“ It was in the time of the other cardinal , who was a great nobleman ; but our Mazarin—impossible !
Go to the devil !
Men would have said that the king had escaped human justice and been overtaken by God ’ s .
He had reserved from his annuity his family papers , his library , composed of five thousand volumes , and his famous breviary .
Andrea , surrounded by his friends , complimented , flattered , beginning to believe in the reality of his dream , was almost bewildered .
They both stood in amazement at the door .
At length they arrived at the famous room .
The officer superintended all these details with the same calmness Milady had constantly seen in him , never pronouncing a word himself , and making himself obeyed by a gesture of his hand or a sound of his whistle .
It was the man of Meung .
But you , madame , so beautiful in reality , you , so pure in appearance , must have committed great iniquities for Lord de Winter to pursue you thus. ” “ They have eyes , ” repeated Milady , with an accent of indescribable grief , “ but they see not ; ears have they , but they hear not. ” “ But , ” cried the young officer , “ speak , then , speak ! ” “ Confide my shame to you , ” cried Milady , with the blush of modesty upon her countenance , “ for often the crime of one becomes the shame of another—confide my shame to you , a man , and I a woman ?
“ What are you bringing me ? ” said he .
0145m “ No , sire , ” he replied , “ I alighted at the Hotel de Madrid , in the Rue de Tournon. ” “ But you have seen him ? ” “ Sire , I went straight to the Duc de Blacas. ” “ But you will see him , then ? ” “ I think not , sire. ” “ Ah , I forgot , ” said Louis , smiling in a manner which proved that all these questions were not made without a motive ; “ I forgot you and M. Noirtier are not on the best terms possible , and that is another sacrifice made to the royal cause , and for which you should be recompensed. ” “ Sire , the kindness your majesty deigns to evince towards me is a recompense which so far surpasses my utmost ambition that I have nothing more to ask for. ” “ Never mind , sir , we will not forget you ; make your mind easy .
Adieu , madame , adieu ! ” And as if he only felt strength to detach himself by a violent effort from the hand he held , he sprang away , running , while Mme .
“ He is here , and here , ” said she , touching her eyes and her heart .
cowardly court !
In the centre of the room was a Roller and Blanchet “ baby grand ” piano in rosewood , but holding the potentialities of an orchestra in its narrow and sonorous cavity , and groaning beneath the weight of the _chefs-d ’ œuvre_ of Beethoven , Weber , Mozart , Haydn , Grétry , and Porpora .
“ Ah , ah ! ” said Porthos , “ it appears we are feasting ! ” “ I hope , ” said Aramis , “ there are no women at your dinner. ” “ Is there any drinkable wine in your tavern ? ” asked Athos .
The host drew back and burst into tears .
Bonacieux .
Things passed as on the night before .
Vampa took this wild road , which , enclosed between two ridges , and shadowed by the tufted umbrage of the pines , seemed , but for the difficulties of its descent , that path to Avernus of which Virgil speaks .
Now through this ventilating hole I throw my lasso , and as I now know in which part of the cellar is the best wine , that ’ s my point for sport .
A little troop of men on horseback were waiting on the edge of the stream , ready to embark .
“ Good-day , Penelon , ” returned Morrel , who could not refrain from smiling through his tears , “ where is the captain ? ” “ The captain , M. Morrel , —he has stayed behind sick at Palma ; but please God , it won ’ t be much , and you will see him in a few days all alive and hearty. ” “ Well , now tell your story , Penelon. ” 20039m Penelon rolled his quid in his cheek , placed his hand before his mouth , turned his head , and sent a long jet of tobacco-juice into the antechamber , advanced his foot , balanced himself , and began .
To see this woman , so beautiful , fair as the brightest vision , to see her by turns overcome with grief and threatening ; to resist at once the ascendancy of grief and beauty—it was too much for a visionary ; it was too much for a brain weakened by the ardent dreams of an ecstatic faith ; it was too much for a heart furrowed by the love of heaven that burns , by the hatred of men that devours .
It bleeds , seemingly. ” “ Oh , it ’ s nothing , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ I was mistaken , ” said the host , “ he ’ s not quite dumb .
An inveterate Bonapartist ; took an active part in the return from the Island of Elba .
The young girl trembled very much at hearing the stories ; but Vampa reassured her with a smile , tapping the butt of his good fowling-piece , which threw its ball so well ; and if that did not restore her courage , he pointed to a crow , perched on some dead branch , took aim , touched the trigger , and the bird fell dead at the foot of the tree .
He approached her .
On the top of the wall sentinels went and came with a frightened air .
Two methods of self-destruction were at his disposal .
The duke glanced at the clock .
Porthos ran to him .
Now I belong to this last-named class ; and certainly my prospects of military preferment are most encouraging as well as certain .
I swear to you , sir , should any harm befall me , your name will be the last name that I shall utter , the remembrance of you my last thought. ” Athos hastened upstairs to conceal his emotion , and regained with hurried steps the porch where Olivain was waiting with the horses .
I have particular business to settle with this gentleman and I shall and will begin. ” Porthos and Aramis drew back , disappointed , and drawing his sword D ’ Artagnan turned to his adversary : “ Sir , I am waiting for you. ” “ And for my part , gentlemen , I admire you .
CAPTIVITY : THE FIFTH DAY Chapter LVII .
I think this is about your position , is it not ? ” “ Confound it , yes ! ” replied Danglars .
has he not come ? ” said Kitty .
I pity her , then. ” “ And you have reason , for she is much to be pitied .
I did go to Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ’ s. ” “ What was the aim of that visit ? ” “ To beg him to assist me in finding my wife .
“ Yes , let us chat , brother , ” said she , with a kind of cheerfulness , decided as she was to draw from the conversation , in spite of all the dissimulation Lord de Winter could bring , the revelations of which she stood in need to regulate her future conduct .
The barber gazed in amazement at this man with the long , thick and black hair and beard , which gave his head the appearance of one of Titian ’ s portraits .
“ It is impossible a gentleman could have written such a letter to a woman. ” Then all at once , starting , she cried , “ My God !
Two well trained servingmen were in attendance on the company .
“ Have I by any means displeased you ?
“ Well , what do you see from this window ?
“ Hurry , hurry ! ” said Andrea , “ we must overtake him soon. ” And the poor horse resumed the desperate gallop it had kept up since leaving the barrier , and arrived steaming at Louvres .
The center of the most animated group was a Musketeer of great height and haughty countenance , dressed in a costume so peculiar as to attract general attention .
Now , since the affair of Nordlingen , they had experienced nothing but reverses ; the parliament had a plea for calling Mazarin to account for imaginary victories , always promised , ever deferred ; but this time there really had been fighting , a triumph and a complete one .
The cardinal folded and sealed his letter .
D ’ Artagnan leaned upon the neck of his horse , in order that he might see without being seen .
They threw themselves into each other ’ s arms , embraced tenderly , and returned together to the house .
D ’ Artagnan took advantage of the lamp which burned in the cabin of the ferryman to read the billet of Mme .
“ Monsieur is going to marry me , ” replied the hostess , between two gasps .
The young Greek , as we have already said , occupied apartments wholly unconnected with those of the count .
Such felicity seems above all price—as a thing impossible and unattainable .
This child of the desert was in his element , and with his black face and sparkling eyes appeared , in the cloud of dust he raised , like the genius of the simoom and the god of the hurricane .
The former was confiding to the latter his grief and fear , for it was the second time within a month that death had suddenly and unexpectedly entered that house which was apparently destined to destruction by some exterminating angel , as an object of God ’ s anger. ” “ Ah , indeed ? ” said Monte Cristo , looking earnestly at the young man , and by an imperceptible movement turning his chair , so that he remained in the shade while the light fell full on Maximilian ’ s face .
“ By Mordaunt. ” “ Yes , but we have drowned Monsieur Mordaunt. ” “ That is true , and that will redeem us a little in the eyes of posterity , if posterity ever looks at us .
“ It is I , ” said D ’ Artagnan in a subdued voice , “ I , the Comte de Wardes. ” “ Oh , my God , my God ! ” murmured Kitty , “ he has not even waited for the hour he himself named ! ” “ Well , ” said Milady , in a trembling voice , “ why do you not enter ?
“ Yes. ” “ But , ” said the notary , “ you are aware that the law does not allow a son to be entirely deprived of his patrimony ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You only intend , then , to dispose of that part of your fortune which the law allows you to subtract from the inheritance of your son ? ” Noirtier made no answer .
“ So , ” D ’ Artagnan resumed , “ you will not become a partisan of Mazarin ’ s ? ” “ Nor you of the Prince de Condé ? ” “ No , let us belong to no party , but remain friends ; let us be neither Cardinalists nor Frondists. ” “ Adieu , then. ” And D ’ Artagnan poured out a glass of wine .
There remained three leagues to travel , and they did it amid torrents of rain .
Nobody serves me for nothing .
Mme .
I will give them .
You are very fortunate , my friend ; but take care or you will lose that letter which is peeping from your doublet , and which also comes , no doubt , from your publisher. ” Aramis blushed to the eyes , crammed in the letter , and re-buttoned his doublet .
The boy found him sitting where D ’ Artagnan had left him , still overwhelmed by the coolness of his adversary .
“ She loves him devilishly , ” he murmured .
This time Franz could contain himself no longer , but sank , half fainting , into a seat .
“ Trust me , ” said Aramis , “ do not expect to find anything in Abbeville .
The soldiers you believe to be dying with hunger , worn out with fatigue , ready to desert , gather like atoms of snow about the rolling ball as it hastens onward .
“ Yes , ” she said , “ at your advice I have made the trial. ” “ And have you succeeded ? ” “ I think so. ” Madame Danglars was carried into the adjoining room ; Monte Cristo dropped a very small portion of the red liquid upon her lips ; she returned to consciousness .
That evening the three Musketeers were informed of the honor accorded them .
A folded paper fell from Edward ’ s breast .
I swear to make you my lawful wife before my lips even shall have approached your forehead. ” “ You make me tremble ! ” said the young girl .
The morning drum had just been beaten ; everyone shook off the drowsiness of night , and to dispel the humid morning air , came to take a drop at the inn .
As little sensitive as was the heart of D ’ Artagnan , he was touched by this mute sorrow ; but he held too tenaciously to his projects , above all to this one , to change the program which he had laid out in advance .
As for me , I shall be deceived all my life perhaps , but I shall always have faith in a person whose countenance inspires me with sympathy. ” “ You would , then , be tempted to believe , ” said the abbess , “ that this young person is innocent ? ” “ The cardinal pursues not only crimes , ” said she : “ there are certain virtues which he pursues more severely than certain offenses. ” “ Permit me , madame , to express my surprise , ” said the abbess .
The procureur , who knew the political hatred which had formerly existed between M. Noirtier and the elder d ’ Épinay , well understood the agitation and anger which the announcement had produced ; but , feigning not to perceive either , he immediately resumed the narrative begun by his wife .
“ I shall be gone only a few moments. ” Villefort hastily quitted the apartment , but reflecting that the sight of the deputy procureur running through the streets would be enough to throw the whole city into confusion , he resumed his ordinary pace .
“ Do you possess 400,000 francs ? ” inquired the notary .
“ Then listen , ” said he .
In the meantime , Grimaud appeared in his turn behind his master , with the musketoon on his shoulder , and his head shaking .
Am I not right , M. de Château-Renaud ? ” 40252m “ That is quite my opinion , ” said the gentleman ; “ nothing induces serious duels so much as a duel forsworn. ” “ Thank you , gentlemen , ” replied Albert , with a smile of indifference ; “ I shall follow your advice—not because you give it , but because I had before intended to quit France .
Hold yourself as bolt upright as on the day of the bastion of St. Gervais , and do not bow too low to this Italian ; that might give him a poor idea of you. ” “ Good ! ” answered Porthos .
The four old Friends prepare to meet again .
This chase was , however , advantageous to him in one sense , for in proportion as the perspiration broke from his forehead , his heart began to cool .
Oh , I am very presuming , I am aware .
“ Yes , yes , ” said Lord de Winter , who perceived what was passing in her mind ; “ yes , you look for the signature , and you say to yourself : ‘ All is not lost , for that order is not signed .
I was expected at sharp midnight , and I am late. ” “ By five minutes. ” “ Yes ; but in certain circumstances five minutes are five ages. ” “ When one loves. ” “ Well !
Since God himself dictated those words to his prophet , why should I seek to make myself better than God ? ” “ Edmond , ” continued Mercédès , with her arms extended towards the count , “ since I first knew you , I have adored your name , have respected your memory .
“ A positive feast ! ” cried M. Coquenard , turning about in his chair , “ a real feast , _epulœ epulorum_ .
I tremble to give my permission. ” “ Listen , Valentine .
Every morning Morrel called on Noirtier to receive news of Valentine , and , extraordinary as it seemed , each day found him less uneasy .
The Workmen .
I seemed to be going mad .
I was drawn on by a very natural resentment to avenge my mother .
She blushed , and that she might not answer , clasped her beautiful hands till her sharp nails almost pierced them .
Firstly , I wish to communicate ; secondly , to embrace my children and bid them farewell for the last time .
“ Well , have you sent ? ” asked Monte Cristo , seeing Morrel return .
Monte Cristo regarded the person who durst presume to doubt his words with the look of one equally surprised and displeased .
On reaching the door , he bowed .
TWO VARIETIES OF DEMONS Chapter LXIII .
“ Now we are alone , dear Aramis , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ tell me how the devil you managed to alight upon the back of Planchet ’ s horse. ” “ I ’ faith ! ” answered Aramis , “ as you see , from Heaven. ” “ From Heaven , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , shaking his head ; “ you have no more the appearance of coming from thence than you have of going there. ” “ My friend , ” said Aramis , with a look of imbecility on his face which D ’ Artagnan had never observed whilst he was in the musketeers , “ if I did not come from Heaven , at least I was leaving Paradise , which is almost the same. ” “ Here , then , is a puzzle for the learned , ” observed D ’ Artagnan , “ until now they have never been able to agree as to the situation of Paradise ; some place it on Mount Ararat , others between the rivers Tigris and Euphrates ; it seems that they have been looking very far away for it , while it was actually very near .
Three days afterward the four Musketeers were in Paris ; they had not exceeded their leave of absence , and that same evening they went to pay their customary visit to M. de Tréville .
The heroine of the bouquet kept her word ; she gave Albert no sign of her existence the morrow or the day after .
If he should have known me again ! ” “ How ?
“ Decidedly , Athos , you were born to be a general , and the cardinal , who fancies himself a great soldier , is nothing beside you. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said Athos , “ no divided attention , I beg ; let each one pick out his man. ” “ I cover mine , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Mistrust everything , in short , even your own shadow. ” “ Fortunately , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ all this will be only necessary till after tomorrow evening , for when once with the army , we shall have , I hope , only men to dread. ” “ In the meantime , ” said Athos , “ I renounce my plan of seclusion , and wherever you go , I will go with you .
The two sentinels at the door still had their swords unsheathed , but they were leaning on them while they watched the game .
The first year he offered government a million of francs for his release ; the second , two ; the third , three ; and so on progressively .
Let us try not to find them out by accident , but from our notions .
3 , 1627 “ It is by my order and for the good of the state that the bearer of this has done what he has done .
Most probably Morrel and Château-Renaud returned to their “ domestic hearths , ” as they say in the gallery of the Chamber in well-turned speeches , and in the theatre of the Rue Richelieu in well-written pieces ; but it was not the case with Debray .
Your name ? ” “ The baroness Danglars ; you have seen me twenty times. ” “ Possibly , madame .
Now then , go , go , in the name of heaven !
The people had made no demonstration for the princes , but they had risen for Broussel ; they were taking the part of a plebeian and in defending Broussel they instinctively felt they were defending themselves .
The Place Royale .
It however became necessary for one of them to break it first , and as D ’ Artagnan appeared determined to leave that honor to his companion , Aramis said , “ you see that I am returned to my fundamental ideas. ” “ Yes , efficacious grace has touched you , as that gentleman said just now. ” “ Oh , these plans of retreat have been formed for a long time .
D ’ Artagnan , ” continued Athos , “ you , who but lately were so anxious for such an opportunity for expressing your gratitude to Monseigneur , here it is ; avail yourself of it. ” These words were pronounced with that imperturbable phlegm which distinguished Athos in the hour of danger , and with that excessive politeness which made of him at certain moments a king more majestic than kings by birth .
Beyond the fortifications through which Athos had made a breach in order to get out , and which were composed of fagots , planks , and empty casks , heaped up according to all the rules of the strategic art , they found , swimming in puddles of oil and wine , the bones and fragments of all the hams they had eaten ; while a heap of broken bottles filled the whole left-hand corner of the cellar , and a tun , the cock of which was left running , was yielding , by this means , the last drop of its blood .
Empty your pockets. ” “ There. ” “ Right .
Look after the house , wife , and I shall be back in two hours , ” and Caderousse left the house in haste , and ran rapidly in the direction opposite to that which the priest had taken .
The _morbleus_ , the _sang Dieus_ , the _morts touts les diables_ , crossed one another in the air .
His heart , swelled by the intoxication of joy , felt ready to dissolve away at the very gate of that terrestrial paradise called Love !
Marvelous !
“ I think him capable of everything. ” “ Well , with the five minutes ’ grace , we have only ten left. ” “ I will profit by them to tell you something about my guest. ” “ I beg pardon , ” interrupted Beauchamp ; “ are there any materials for an article in what you are going to tell us ? ” “ Yes , and for a most curious one. ” “ Go on , then , for I see I shall not get to the Chamber this morning , and I must make up for it. ” “ I was at Rome during the last Carnival. ” “ We know that , ” said Beauchamp .
The means we might have used , which we in our blindness could not see , then seem simple and easy , and we say , ‘ Why did I not do this , instead of that ? ’ Women , on the contrary , are rarely tormented with remorse ; for the decision does not come from you , —your misfortunes are generally imposed upon you , and your faults the results of others ’ crimes. ” “ In any case , sir , you will allow , ” replied Madame Danglars , “ that , even if the fault were alone mine , I last night received a severe punishment for it. ” “ Poor thing , ” said Villefort , pressing her hand , “ it was too severe for your strength , for you were twice overwhelmed , and yet—— ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , I must tell you .
An hour afterward Rochefort set out at a grand gallop ; five hours after that he passed through Arras .
The Catalans Beyond a bare , weather-worn wall , about a hundred paces from the spot where the two friends sat looking and listening as they drank their wine , was the village of the Catalans .
“ For what ? ” said the count .
“ What do you mean , Grimaud ? ” he exclaimed .
As for you , your captain is the prince , understand that rightly ; you have no other .
culpable , at the most , of weakness , how cruelly punished by his subjects !
The baroness was also surprised , and showed her astonishment by a look which would doubtless have had some effect upon her husband if he had not been intently occupied with the paper , where he was looking to see the closing stock quotations .
He sought to open it ; lock and padlock were fastened ; these faithful guardians seemed unwilling to surrender their trust .
Madame Broussel , separated by the width of the table from her husband , burst into tears , and the young girls clung to their father ’ s arms .
Still , ” added he , “ amid all this , I have not yet been presented to Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars , whose acquaintance I should have been glad to make .
Athos bowed .
“ My lord , you are right , and I am glad to see that you do justice to the count at last .
‘ You can sleep here. ’ “ ‘ Yes ; do stay , ’ added La Carconte in a tremulous voice ; ‘ we will take every care of you. ’ “ ‘ No ; I must sleep at Beaucaire .
I prefer traveling alone to having a companion who entertains the least fear. ” “ Monsieur does me wrong , ” said Planchet ; “ I thought he had seen me at work. ” “ Yes , but I thought perhaps you had worn out all your courage the first time. ” “ Monsieur shall see that upon occasion I have some left ; only I beg Monsieur not to be too prodigal of it if he wishes it to last long. ” “ Do you believe you have still a certain amount of it to expend this evening ? ” “ I hope so , monsieur. ” “ Well , then , I count on you. ” “ At the appointed hour I shall be ready ; only I believed that Monsieur had but one horse in the Guard stables. ” “ Perhaps there is but one at this moment ; but by this evening there will be four. ” “ It appears that our journey was a remounting journey , then ? ” “ Exactly so , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; and nodding to Planchet , he went out .
“ It sounds like the cry of one who is being murdered , ” murmured the host .
Thus the Genoese , subtle as he was , was duped by Edmond , in whose favor his mild demeanor , his nautical skill , and his admirable dissimulation , pleaded .
“ Good God , ” cried Kitty , “ there is my mistress calling me !
At last Louis XIII .
0329m “ But the strangest part of the story is , ” resumed the abbé , “ that Dantès , even in his dying moments , swore by his crucified Redeemer , that he was utterly ignorant of the cause of his detention. ” “ And so he was , ” murmured Caderousse .
But the easy-chair of the old man was heard rolling along the floor , and he soon made his appearance in the room .
He entertains a very high opinion of M. and Madame de Villefort. ” “ Which they deserve , do they not ? ” “ I believe they do .
Leisurely turning round , they calmly scrutinized the various countenances around them , as though demanding some one person who would take upon himself the responsibility of what they deemed excessive impertinence ; but as no one responded to the challenge , the friends turned again to the front of the theatre , and affected to busy themselves with the stage .
He spoke in a voice of the procureur-general , with the rigid inflexibility of neck and shoulders which caused his flatterers to say ( as we have before observed ) that he was the living statue of the law .
“ Have you not slept ? ” said the jailer .
Monsieur Cardinal is indeed a privileged man ! ” “ Imagine my astonishment , ” continued Milady , “ when I found myself face to face with this woman ! ” “ Does she know you ? ” “ No. ” “ Then she looks upon you as a stranger ? ” Milady smiled .
There were benches here and there ; the four gentlemen stopped near them ; at a sign from Athos , Porthos and D ’ Artagnan sat down , the two others stood in front of them .
“ And kill him , ” said Porthos .
I have just killed a man whose face is not unknown to me .
To-morrow the army of Paris will be summoned , the day after it will be here !
The count , in taking leave of him , said something in a low voice , to which he answered , “ Willingly , count ; I accept. ” The count returned to young Morcerf .
“ Saved , ” said the girl ; “ saved by the crew of the vessel that has just entered the harbor. ” Morrel raised his two hands to heaven with an expression of resignation and sublime gratitude .
M. Noirtier tenderly loves his granddaughter , Mademoiselle de Villefort ; it is she who has nursed and tended him for six years , and has , by her devoted attention , fully secured the affection , I had almost said the gratitude , of her grandfather , and it is but just that she should reap the fruit of her devotion. ” The eye of Noirtier clearly showed by its expression that he was not deceived by the false assent given by Madame de Villefort ’ s words and manner to the motives which she supposed him to entertain .
“ It is impossible , ” said Maximilian , “ that the signing of a contract should occupy so long a time without unexpected interruptions .
Chapter 10 .
“ I am disposed to believe your eminence , ” he replied ; “ though I have had but little evidence of that good-nature of which your eminence speaks .
At this moment hope makes me despise their riches , which seem to me contemptible .
What possessions , what reputation , what ‘ pull , ’ as Beauchamp says , —have I ?
“ _She ! _ What she ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Come , gentlemen , let us all propose some place .
“ Yes , ” said they , “ we have promised to deliver Scotland and England from him who for the last five-and-twenty years has sucked the blood and gold of Scotland and England .
Grimaud , wishing to relieve him , advanced his hand toward the hilt of the dagger .
You had no pity for that youthfulness , that beauty , that weakness ?
de Guémené .
“ Diable ! ” he exclaimed when the door was shut , “ they seem to have the greatest need of me just now. ” Then , as the half hour had already glided by , he crossed the gallery and knocked at the cardinal ’ s door .
Alas , how gladly would I exchange the half of this wealth for the happiness of at least sharing my father ’ s love .
“ Yes , ” said Dantès ; “ do you know him ? ” “ No , ” replied Villefort ; “ a faithful servant of the king does not know conspirators. ” 0103m “ It is a conspiracy , then ? ” asked Dantès , who after believing himself free , now began to feel a tenfold alarm .
Amid the moaning of the storm she heard the grinding of the file upon the bars , and by the light of every flash she perceived the shadow of Felton through the panes .
Everybody noticed that the king looked dull and preoccupied .
He expressed to him the fears he entertained with respect to her Majesty ; he related to him what he had heard of the projects of the cardinal with regard to Buckingham , and all with a tranquillity and candor of which M. de Tréville was the more the dupe , from having himself , as we have said , observed something fresh between the cardinal , the king , and the queen .
Porthos paid no attention .
“ Do you find me of sufficient rank to do me the honor of crossing swords with me ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” said the Englishman , bowing .
But D ’ Artagnan was at the same time impetuous and curious .
D ’ Artagnan , who , foreseeing such an event , had kept his eye on him , sprang toward him , caught him in his arms , and assisted him to his chamber .
A tall , pale clerk , his face shaded by a forest of virgin hair , opened the door , and bowed with the air of a man forced at once to respect in another lofty stature , which indicated strength , the military dress , which indicated rank , and a ruddy countenance , which indicated familiarity with good living .
“ You here , Rochefort ? ” he said , in a low voice .
Chance for once seemed to favor them in sending what they were so assiduously seeking .
here is madame returning with monsieur. ” D ’ Artagnan looked out and at the corner of Rue Montmartre saw the hostess coming along hanging to the arm of an enormous Swiss , who tiptoed in his walk with a magnificent air which pleasantly reminded him of his old friend Porthos .
Bonacieux , raising her hands to her forehead , “ I shall go mad ! ” “ Stop— ” “ What ? ” “ I hear a horse ’ s steps ; it is my brother setting off again .
Well , my dear father , in the shipwreck of life—for life is an eternal shipwreck of our hopes—I cast into the sea my useless encumbrance , that is all , and I remain with my own will , disposed to live perfectly alone , and consequently perfectly free. ” “ Unhappy girl , unhappy girl ! ” murmured Danglars , turning pale , for he knew from long experience the solidity of the obstacle he had so suddenly encountered .
“ I !
The king was already sanguine , but when he perceived Aramis his hope turned to joy .
“ Come , ” said Monte-Cristo , touching his shoulder with his finger , “ are you a man again , Maximilian ? ” “ Yes ; for I begin to suffer again. ” The count frowned , apparently in gloomy hesitation .
To such a degree , I assure you , though I would not say so to others , that if the queen , acknowledging the injuries she has done me , would recall my mother and give me the reversion of the admiralty , which belonged to my father and was promised me at his death , well !
What ? —after the varied relations I have had the happiness to sustain towards you , can it be that you know me so little as to ask such a thing ?
“ No ; but just think , there are paltry country squires who have all some title or another and pretend to go back as far as Charlemagne , or at least to Hugh Capet .
We will embark for Algiers , for England , for America , or , if you prefer it , retire to the country and only return to Paris when our friends have reconciled your family. ” Valentine shook her head .
“ ‘ Silence , child !
And the prisoner , ” he continued aloud , “ was he ever heard of afterwards ? ” “ Oh , no ; of course not .
He was , therefore , about to return to the Palazzo Bracciano without loss of time , when suddenly a luminous idea crossed his mind .
“ Do you remember me ? ” said he to the host , who advanced to greet him .
“ I had , ” replied the count .
“ Ah ! ” said Mazarin to himself , “ what a sweet face ; does she come to borrow money of me ? ” And he threw an uneasy glance at his strong box ; he even turned inside the bevel of the magnificent diamond ring , the brilliancy of which drew every eye upon his hand , which indeed was white and handsome .
Athos , you have done wrong. ” “ But , my dear friend , put yourself in my place , ” replied the Musketeer .
this time I , too , saw them , ” said Porthos .
“ Excuse me , ” said the banker , “ but you will tire yourself , baroness , by such late hours , and M. Debray lives some distance from here. ” Debray was petrified , not only to hear Danglars speak so calmly and politely , but because it was apparent that beneath outward politeness there really lurked a determined spirit of opposition to anything his wife might wish to do .
On the evening before , they had scarcely seen each other for a moment at the apartment of the Swiss guard , Germain , whither D ’ Artagnan had sent for her .
I am Planchet—Planchet , whom you know well. ” But the honest servant could say no more , so much was he overcome by this unexpected interview .
If the king was still irritated against them , they would depart without being seen ; if the king consented to see them , they would only have to be called .
Listen , then , to the supplication of a despairing woman .
In an instant all the strength of mind of this creature , though drawn from the most vigorous sources , abandoned her ; she sank into a large easy chair , with her arms crossed , her head lowered , and expecting every instant to see a judge enter to interrogate her .
“ First , madame , who are you ? ” “ Who am I ?
Those who have read the _Memoirs_ of Mme .
“ Well , what are you doing , count—to a former lackey ?
Would it not be a sweet revenge for him when he found that I had not died from the blow of his dagger ?
The two found themselves in a small chapel covered with a tapestry of Persian silk worked with gold , and brilliantly lighted with a vast number of candles .
But what makes you doubt it ? ” “ I was afraid I had made a mistake in the chamber , and that I had found my way into the apartment of some churchman .
What procureur has ever ventured to draw up an accusation against M. Magendie or M. Flourens , in consequence of the rabbits , cats , and guinea-pigs they have killed ? —not one .
Mazarin gave , however , no order of the kind , but on the contrary began to be insinuating .
“ It is for that reason I have given orders to pass the island , for , as you see , the fire is behind us. ” “ But this fire ? ” continued Franz .
“ I am , ” replied Dantès , in bad Italian , “ a Maltese sailor .
A mournful answer awaited each of Edmond ’ s eager inquiries as to the information Jacopo had obtained .
Mme .
As a proof , remember the date of the day on which I had you bidden to come to me , and seek in your memory for what happened to you that very night. ” That was the very evening when the abduction of Mme .
“ Ah , sir , ” he exclaimed , “ it was you !
Fortunately , as we have said , Edmond was only wounded , and with certain herbs gathered at certain seasons , and sold to the smugglers by the old Sardinian women , the wound soon closed .
“ This horse made my visitors ashamed of theirs , and I don ’ t like to humiliate people. ” “ Then your duchess is still at the waters ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
The lookout has signalled her , and they say she is now coming into port. ” 20063m “ My dear friends , ” said Morrel , “ if this be so , it must be a miracle of heaven !
In fifteen or twenty days I shall set out for La Rochelle with the army ; but on the eve of my departure a vessel which I shall see depart will take you hence and convey you to our colonies in the south .
After breakfast two letters arrived for Athos , who read them with profound attention , whilst D ’ Artagnan could not restrain himself from jumping up several times on seeing him read these epistles , in one of which , there being at the time a very strong light , he perceived the fine writing of Aramis .
“ Ah , ” she cried , “ what a frightful dream ! ” Villefort pressed her hand to let her know it was not a dream .
“ By me. ” “ What was his name ? ” “ Lord Winter. ” “ Your uncle ? ” exclaimed Cromwell .
They had repaired it completely , and stopped up with vast masses of stone the hole Dantès had partly filled in .
“ Die ! ” cried Mademoiselle Paulet , bitterly , “ he !
One more practiced in the arts of great cities would have hid her blushes beneath a veil , or , at least , have cast down her thickly fringed lashes , so as to have concealed the liquid lustre of her animated eyes ; but , on the contrary , the delighted girl looked around her with a smile that seemed to say : “ If you are my friends , rejoice with me , for I am very happy. ” As soon as the bridal party came in sight of La Réserve , M. Morrel descended and came forth to meet it , followed by the soldiers and sailors there assembled , to whom he had repeated the promise already given , that Dantès should be the successor to the late Captain Leclere .
Should our bark be upset we are five of us good swimmers , able enough to turn it over again , or if not , to hold on by it .
M. de Villefort has always passed for a severe but a just man. ” “ There is , then , one , ” said Monte Cristo , “ whom you do not condemn like poor Danglars ? ” “ Because I am not compelled to marry his daughter perhaps , ” replied Albert , laughing .
But at this sort of work , many doublets must be slashed and many swords broken .
The inspector turned smilingly to the governor .
I will do my best. ” “ Well , then , let us go—I must trust to you. ” “ It is very fortunate , ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself .
By Jove !
D ’ Artagnan took out the parcel which he had desired Bernouin to place under the seat .
A single word had reminded her that Morrel was expecting her in M. Noirtier ’ s room .
But dress me as well as you are able , only make haste ; think , my dear girl , it ’ s life and death ! ” Kitty was but too well aware of that .
“ What would you have ? ” said Monte Cristo ; “ we are all mortal .
I do not despise bankruptcies , believe me , but they must be those which enrich , not those which ruin .
“ Never mind that , ” returned the sailor , “ I know their vessel. ” “ Is it a very beautiful vessel ? ” “ I would not wish for a better to sail round the world. ” “ Of what burden is she ? ” “ About a hundred tons ; but she is built to stand any weather .
In the meanwhile , how disheartening to see the woman one loves long for those thousands of nothings which constitute a woman ’ s happiness , and be unable to give her those thousands of nothings .
The pickaxe that had seemed so heavy , was now like a feather in his grasp ; he seized it , and attacked the wall .
Still the same story of superfluities !
Once in service , I shall be rich—once in M. Dantès ’ house , you will be at rest .
“ Extremely , ” replied he ; “ she looked so pale this morning , I scarcely knew her. ” These apparently simple words pierced Morrel to the heart .
Guémené was reading aloud , and everybody was listening to her with attention with the exception of the queen , who had , on the contrary , desired this reading in order that she might be able , while feigning to listen , to pursue the thread of her own thoughts .
There exist no imprecations she did not pour out against you .
“ I can not believe it , ” murmured the banker .
I never visit ministers ; I leave that to the princes. ” “ Really , you were only before sparkling , but now you are brilliant ; take compassion on us , or , like Jupiter , you will wither us up. ” “ I will not speak again , ” said Château-Renaud ; “ pray have compassion upon me , and do not take up every word I say. ” “ Come , let us endeavor to get to the end of our story , Beauchamp ; I told you that yesterday Madame made inquiries of me upon the subject ; enlighten me , and I will then communicate my information to her. ” “ Well , gentlemen , the reason people die so multitudinously ( I like the word ) at M. de Villefort ’ s is that there is an assassin in the house ! ” The two young men shuddered , for the same idea had more than once occurred to them .
D ’ Artagnan looked with surprise at his friend .
The cardinal related yesterday while playing with the king , with an air of condolence very displeasing to me , that the day before yesterday those _damned Musketeers_ , those _daredevils_—he dwelt upon those words with an ironical tone still more displeasing to me—those _braggarts_ , added he , glancing at me with his tiger-cat ’ s eye , had made a riot in the Rue Férou in a cabaret , and that a party of his Guards ( I thought he was going to laugh in my face ) had been forced to arrest the rioters !
Three days passed—seventy-two long tedious hours which he counted off by minutes !
“ An unhappy prisoner , ” replied Dantès , who made no hesitation in answering .
Still further , Monsieur de Tréville gains ten thousand crowns a year ; he is therefore a great noble .
Keep that ring for love of me .
The bills were renewed , the old ones destroyed , and the poor ship-owner found himself with three months before him to collect his resources .
“ Really ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , abandoning the attempt to burst open the panel after several ineffectual attempts , “ Athos , I can not imagine how you can talk to us in that way .
In a few days you will be away from this place ; your life , madame , will then no longer be under my care , and , ” added he , with a sigh , “ then you can do what you will with it. ” “ So , ” cried Milady , as if she could not resist giving utterance to a holy indignation , “ you , a pious man , you who are called a just man , you ask but one thing—and that is that you may not be inculpated , annoyed , by my death ! ” “ It is my duty to watch over your life , madame , and I will watch. ” “ But do you understand the mission you are fulfilling ?
“ Noble and unhappy king ! ” “ Are you wounded ? ” cried Aramis .
Monsieur Abbé , you are a great moralist. ” “ Doubtless , ” said Aramis , “ for we not only require to be well served in order to succeed , but moreover , not to fail ; for in case of failure , heads are in question , not for our lackeys— ” “ Speak lower , Aramis , ” said Athos .
really , ” said Planchet .
More than once he had reached that part of the garden where the famous boarded gate stood overlooking the deserted enclosure , always returning by the same path , to begin his walk again , at the same pace and with the same gesture , when he accidentally turned his eyes towards the house , whence he heard the noisy play of his son , who had returned from school to spend the Sunday and Monday with his mother .
“ Alas , yes ! ” said Caderousse very uneasily .
I was forced , then , to combat the fast of the evening with the nourishment of the morning .
“ You may guess , finding the luck turned , that I again staked the diamond. ” “ The devil ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , becoming angry again .
Mazarin arose , walked some moments , thoughtful , but not dejected .
stopped , terrified at what he was about to say , while Richelieu , stretching out his neck , waited uselessly for the word which had died on the lips of the king .
This was before his servant came .
Madame de Villefort closed the door carefully after the child , the count appearing not to notice her ; then casting a scrutinizing glance around the chamber , the young wife returned to her chair , in which she seated herself .
“ You believed me to be dead , did you not , as I believed you to be ?
It is a long time since we have had a skirmish with the Guards of Monsieur the Cardinal ; Monsieur de Tréville must think us dead. ” “ To a certainty , Athos , ” said Aramis , “ you were meant to be a general of the army !
“ Did you ever occupy yourself , ” said he to Franz , “ with the employment of time and the means of simplifying the summoning your servants ?
The host obeyed .
To Danglars Monte Cristo also wrote , requesting him to excuse the whimsical gift of a capricious millionaire , and to beg the baroness to pardon the Eastern fashion adopted in the return of the horses .
“ You are wounded , ” said he .
I shall have performed a good action , and my heart will be lighter. ” And the procureur breathed more freely than he had done for some time .
“ We will divide our regiments into two squadrons .
“ Ah , ” said Louise , breathing freely , “ here we are out of Paris. ” “ Yes , my dear , the abduction is an accomplished fact , ” replied Eugénie .
The three friends—for , as we have said , Athos had sworn not to stir a foot to equip himself—went out early in the morning , and returned late at night .
that would be too terrible ! ” “ Calm yourself , sir , ” replied De Guiche .
“ Don ’ t you remember , Porthos , we saw her at General Cromwell ’ s ? ” The roll call continued .
It seemed as if a flow of blood had ascended from the chest to the head .
The true difficulty of being admitted was not to be found at the first door , and even the second was passed easily enough ; but at the third watched , besides the guard and the doorkeepers , the faithful Bernouin , a Cerberus whom no speech could soften , no wand , even of gold , could charm .
But did he know what was meant by the terrible word ‘ vendetta ’ ? ” “ He knew so well , that from that moment he shut himself in his house , and never went out unattended , seeking me high and low .
A woman , about six months after , came to claim it with the other half of the napkin .
But he was not listened to , and his cries only served to arouse the attention of the Spaniards .
“ What news ? ” exclaimed a general burst of voices .
The stranger placed the point of his sword at his throat ; and Monsieur Porthos , finding himself at the mercy of his adversary , acknowledged himself conquered .
A man , wrapped in a cloak , appeared at the door , but seeing a stranger he beckoned to his companions , and two men who were drinking in the inn went out to speak to him .
While the struggle between day and night lasted , Dantès still doubted ; but as soon as the daylight gained the pre-eminence , he saw that he was alone with a corpse .
When her hands were loosed he took some sea water and sprinkled it over her face .
“ A friend ! ” responded Peppino ; and , advancing alone towards the sentry , he said a few words to him in a low tone ; and then he , like the first , saluted the nocturnal visitors , making a sign that they might proceed .
Alas , I understand. ” “ Think of the offense you have committed toward me , madame !
1.F.6 .
On approaching the house , he perceived M. Bonacieux in morning costume , standing at his threshold .
“ But he will draw upon his head the punishment reserved for the damned ! ” said Felton , with increasing exultation .
Porthos received all these attentions like a man accustomed to such demonstrations , only on turning the corner of the street he lifted his hat gracefully , and waved it to her as a sign of adieu .
Her poetic and excited mind pictured it as the soul of her grandmother .
Life is a chaplet of little miseries which the philosopher counts with a smile .
“ This is where the mad abbé was kept , sir , and that is where the young man entered ; ” and the guide pointed to the opening , which had remained unclosed .
could never rid himself , “ this horse was born in the house of your father about thirteen years ago , and has remained in it ever since , which ought to make you love it .
Her face , therefore , like that of the gentleman , was perfectly unknown to the two concierges , who were perhaps unequalled throughout the capital for discretion .
Valentine kissed the old man , who looked at her with such tenderness that her eyes again filled with tears , whose sources he thought must be exhausted .
The other was forced to wait , and it was easily to be seen how he cursed the delay .
At the end of five minutes they perceived the carriage drawn up by the roadside ; a cavalier , richly dressed , was close to the door .
The cab crossed the Pont-Neuf and entered the Rue de Harlay by the Place Dauphine ; the driver was paid as the door opened , and stepping lightly up the stairs Madame Danglars soon reached the Salle des Pas-Perdus .
If he becomes certain that this war will cost the honor , and perhaps the liberty , of the lady of his thoughts , as he says , I will answer for it he will look twice. ” “ And yet , ” said Milady , with a persistence that proved she wished to see clearly to the end of the mission with which she was about to be charged , “ if he persists ? ” “ If he persists ? ” said the cardinal .
She was very plainly dressed , as would be the case with a woman of taste walking in the morning .
The marshal raised his hand in token of assent .
The movement was executed in silence and with precision .
These gentlemen wage war on private account , and in buying them up , by granting them what they wished , monsieur le cardinal has made a good bargain .
Here and there they passed little copses crossing the path which they were following .
“ Oh , my God , my God , I thank thee ! ” “ Madame ! ” said Athos , “ madame , in the name of heaven , whose empty glass is this ? ” “ Mine , monsieur , ” said the young woman , in a dying voice .
But D ’ Artagnan had now slipped through the window .
“ Climb up , ” said he to Dantès .
“ Ah , is that you , D ’ Artagnan , and you , Athos ? ” said the young man .
Then there will be no blood , no groans , no convulsions , and above all , no consciousness of that horrid and compromising moment of accomplishing the act , —then one escapes the clutch of the human law , which says , ‘ Do not disturb society ! ’ This is the mode in which they manage these things , and succeed in Eastern climes , where there are grave and phlegmatic persons who care very little for the questions of time in conjunctures of importance. ” “ Yet conscience remains , ” remarked Madame de Villefort in an agitated voice , and with a stifled sigh .
The prince followed him with his eyes and continued looking at the door ; no one ventured to speak , for fear of disturbing him .
“ You blackguard ! ” cried Athos , going toward him , “ I ’ ll cut your ears off ! ” At the same instant , four men , armed to the teeth , entered by side doors , and rushed upon Athos .
You must dress him up during my absence .
“ So , ” said the cardinal , in a tone that contrasted strongly with the severity of his words , “ you have constituted yourselves judges , without remembering that they who punish without license to punish are assassins ? ” “ Monseigneur , I swear to you that I never for an instant had the intention of defending my head against you .
“ I live there during my leave of absence , ” continued Maximilian ; “ and I shall be , together with my brother-in-law Emmanuel , at the disposition of the Count , whenever he thinks fit to honor us. ” “ One minute , ” cried Albert , without giving Monte Cristo the time to reply .
Far beyond the door the heads of those who were not able to enter could be seen , all craning to their utmost height to try and see .
“ Just as they were sitting down to table , M. de Monte Cristo arrived .
“ Father , ” he said , “ do you reflect that you are bidding me to live ? ” “ Yes , I do so bid you , ” answered Morrel , “ it is your duty .
“ The Lord of the estate on which the chapel of the curacy was situated saw this pretend sister , and became enamoured of her—amorous to such a degree that he proposed to marry her .
When they reached a certain spot these men appeared to be annihilated , one after the other , as if the earth had opened under their feet .
The magistrates freely discussed their political views ; the military part of the company talked unreservedly of Moscow and Leipsic , while the women commented on the divorce of Josephine .
Go to !
He sought to tread water , in order to rest himself ; but the sea was too violent , and he felt that he could not make use of this means of recuperation .
“ Yes , madame , ” replied the officer .
I had informed M. Morrel of my desire to have these payments punctually , and he has been here within the last half-hour to tell me that if his ship , the _Pharaon_ , did not come into port on the 15th , he would be wholly unable to make this payment. ” “ But , ” said the Englishman , “ this looks very much like a suspension of payment. ” “ It looks more like bankruptcy ! ” exclaimed M. de Boville despairingly .
The felucca went on , the boat continued stationary , rocked only by the swashing waves .
He was dressed in a blue frock-coat , buttoned up to the chin , and wore at his button-hole the rosette of an officer of the Legion of Honor .
“ Capital , ” answered the mendicant .
He heard hasty steps , the creaking of a door , people going and coming , and some minutes afterwards a turnkey entered , saying : “ Here is the brazier , lighted. ” There was a moment ’ s silence , and then was heard the crackling of burning flesh , of which the peculiar and nauseous smell penetrated even behind the wall where Dantès was listening in horror .
“ There is no harm in over-precaution .
Yet he entertained a marked preference for this gentleman .
“ Because an astrologer had predicted that you would escape. ” “ Ah !
“ Cavalcanti ! ” said Debray .
The affair was not long , I assure you .
Chapter X. Monsieur Porthos du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds .
Then , as she had done the evening before , she fell on her knees and repeated her prayers aloud .
“ Good , ” thought Gondy , “ she is going to yield. ” ( “ She is going to have him killed , ” said D ’ Artagnan to Porthos , “ but at all events it shall not be by me .
I feel as if it were ordained that this man should be associated with all the good which the future may have in store for me , and sometimes it really seems as if his eye was able to see what was to come , and his hand endowed with the power of directing events according to his own will. ” “ He must be a prophet , then , ” said Valentine , smiling .
“ We must not do so ? ” “ No. ” “ You do not sanction our project ? ” “ No. ” “ There is another way , ” said Morrel .
He bowed respectfully to the king , who gave him a somewhat cavalier reception , but a look from his mother reproved him for the hatred which , from his infancy , Louis XIV .
“ No , dear Morcerf ; you know I only refuse when the thing is impossible .
“ I tell you , sir , that two persons exist in you ; the father has mourned sufficiently , now let the procureur fulfil his office. ” The eyes of Noirtier glistened , and d ’ Avrigny approached .
Did you not say she was dead ? ” “ Three times she attempted to kill me , and I pardoned her ; but she murdered the woman I loved .
You wish to leave before everybody and at what hour ? ” “ At ten o ’ clock. ” “ And the queen , at what time is it her wish to start ? ” “ At midnight. ” “ Then it is possible .
“ You did not let the executioner escape , then ? ” “ The executioner is still in the cellar , where , I presume , he has had an interview with mine host ’ s bottles .
“ Madame , ” said Villefort , “ I ask where is M. d ’ Avrigny ?
Everything seemed more magnificent at a second view than it had done at their first rapid survey .
Buckingham remained for a moment dazzled .
“ Come , then , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you are right .
here !
The people were infuriated ; they stopped the horses and cut the escort to pieces , whilst I opened the doors of the carriage and Monsieur de Rochefort jumped out and soon was lost amongst the crowd .
Months and years rolled on .
“ My friend , ” said Athos , “ he has given me news of Raoul. ” “ And now , gentlemen , ” said Planchet , who had not heard what they were saying , “ what do you intend to do ? ” “ Re-enter Paris , if you will let us , my good Planchet. ” “ Let you , sir ?
After dinner Morrel usually went out and used to take his coffee at the club of the Phocéens , and read the _Semaphore_ ; this day he did not leave the house , but returned to his office .
The footman ’ s mission was an easy one .
Had not government better profit by it ?
Bonacieux would never have left that embrace alive .
“ Yield ! ” he cried , “ or you are a dead man ! ” The musket fell from the soldier ’ s hands , who yielded on the instant .
If I were betrayed as he was , I would console myself ; but to be in the midst of persons elevated by myself to places of honor , who ought to watch over me more carefully than over themselves , —for my fortune is theirs—before me they were nothing—after me they will be nothing , and perish miserably from incapacity—ineptitude !
Then , when they had finished , they cast the earth over the corpse , until the grave was filled .
This astonishment was doubled when Aramis saw Athos fill a bumper and toss it off with all his former enthusiasm .
Rita lay between them .
“ My lord , I think we are in bad company. ” A man advanced to the door with a kind of scythe in his hand .
“ Father , ” said Mercédès , stopping when she had reached the centre of the table , “ sit , I pray you , on my right hand ; on my left I will place him who has ever been as a brother to me , ” pointing with a soft and gentle smile to Fernand ; but her words and look seemed to inflict the direst torture on him , for his lips became ghastly pale , and even beneath the dark hue of his complexion the blood might be seen retreating as though some sudden pang drove it back to the heart .
Adieu , perhaps farewell. ” At the hour agreed upon Aramis arrived ; he was dressed as an officer and had the old sword at his side which he had drawn so often and which he was more than ever ready to draw .
“ What is this ? ” said Aramis to Juxon .
“ Ah , ” said Monte Cristo “ I did not expect that the affair would be so promptly concluded. ” “ Oh , things take their course without our assistance .
“ Unfasten it , or I will break it in ! ” said Grimaud .
“ No. ” “ From you ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You thoroughly understand me , sir ?
Despite these efforts , Project Gutenberg™ electronic works , and the medium on which they may be stored , may contain “ Defects , ” such as , but not limited to , incomplete , inaccurate or corrupt data , transcription errors , a copyright or other intellectual property infringement , a defective or damaged disk or other medium , a computer virus , or computer codes that damage or can not be read by your equipment .
She was coming out of Marseilles harbor , and was standing out to sea rapidly , her sharp prow cleaving through the waves .
Chapter XLVI .
“ Well , I was but four years old when one night I was suddenly awakened by my mother .
You owe me nothing but some trifle of 20,000 francs , which you have been saved out of your travelling expenses , so that there is not much of a score between us ; —but you must really permit me to congratulate you on the ease and unconcern with which you resigned yourself to your fate , and the perfect indifference you manifested as to the turn events might take. ” “ Upon my word , ” said Albert , “ I deserve no credit for what I could not help , namely , a determination to take everything as I found it , and to let those bandits see , that although men get into troublesome scrapes all over the world , there is no nation but the French that can smile even in the face of grim Death himself .
“ Do with this commission what you will ; only remember , though the name be blank , it is to you I give it. ” “ I shall never forget it , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
“ What can I say more ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
“ Listen to me !
“ You are charged with a letter of introduction addressed to me , are you not ? ” said the count .
Planchet and Fourreau , as pale as death , were trying to give him succor ; but it was plain that all assistance was useless—all the features of the dying man were distorted with agony .
At the end of the dinner he entered in person .
Good Lord , try one throw !
Shall I send the father to you ? ” “ Immediately. ” “ Very well. ” The count made a sign to Albert and they bowed to the ladies , and took their leave , Albert perfectly indifferent to Mademoiselle Danglars ’ contempt , Monte Cristo reiterating his advice to Madame Danglars on the prudence a banker ’ s wife should exercise in providing for the future .
Morrel , farewell ! ” “ Do you leave me ? ” “ Yes ; I have business in Italy .
But this time she had to contend with an unpolished nature , concentrated and insensible by force of austerity .
Keep the commission , D ’ Artagnan ; the profession of arms suits you .
“ I think nothing ; I quote a fact , that is all .
Now , after the oath I have just taken , and which I will keep , madame , dare you ask for mercy for that wretch ! ” “ But , sir , are you sure he is as guilty as they say ? ” “ Listen ; this is his description : ‘ Benedetto , condemned , at the age of sixteen , for five years to the galleys for forgery. ’ He promised well , as you see—first a runaway , then an assassin. ” “ And who is this wretch ? ” “ Who can tell ? —a vagabond , a Corsican. ” “ Has no one owned him ? ” “ No one ; his parents are unknown. ” “ But who was the man who brought him from Lucca ? ” “ Another rascal like himself , perhaps his accomplice. ” The baroness clasped her hands .
Then the cardinal , whatever he said , very well knew that the horror of bloodshed in this encounter , in which Frenchman would combat against Frenchman , was a retrograde movement of sixty years impressed upon his policy ; and the cardinal was at that period what we now call a man of progress .
As Franz was about to take leave of M. de Villefort , “ When shall I see you again ? ” said the latter .
“ You were right , my Lord , ” said Felton , with a tone of profound disgust which sounded to the very bottom of the heart of Milady , “ you were right , my Lord , and I was wrong. ” And both again left the room .
“ Yes , ” said Porthos , recollecting himself , “ but one uniform and one sword will not suffice for two. ” “ Well ; but there ’ s his comrade. ” “ True , ” said Porthos .
The sudden departure of Franz , after being summoned by M. Noirtier , had so much astonished everyone , that the position of Madame de Villefort , left alone with the notary and the witnesses , became every moment more embarrassing .
“ Do you understand the meaning of my words ?
In the name of heaven , Duke , leave me , go !
His countenance denoted the struggle between two opposite principles—a wicked nature , subdued by determination , perhaps by repentance .
Franz rubbed his eyes in order to assure himself that this was not a dream .
It was quite evident , by her manner , that her uneasiness was not feigned ; and Franz himself could not resist a feeling of superstitious dread—so much the stronger in him , as it arose from a variety of corroborative recollections , while the terror of the countess sprang from an instinctive belief , originally created in her mind by the wild tales she had listened to till she believed them truths .
“ Yes , ” said Château-Renaud , “ these Italians are well named and badly dressed. ” “ You are fastidious , Château-Renaud , ” replied Debray ; “ those clothes are well cut and quite new. ” “ That is just what I find fault with .
“ Come in here , Monsieur Chevalier , ” said she ; “ here we shall be alone , and can talk. ” “ And whose room is this , my dear child ? ” “ It is mine , Monsieur Chevalier ; it communicates with my mistress ’ s by that door .
All the crowd gave way before Morrel .
“ Father , ” said Benedetto , “ I am asked for proofs , do you wish me to give them ? ” “ No , no , it is useless , ” stammered M. de Villefort in a hoarse voice ; “ no , it is useless ! ” “ How useless ? ” cried the president , “ what do you mean ? ” “ I mean that I feel it impossible to struggle against this deadly weight which crushes me .
“ Unfortunately , ” said Athos , “ he whom we send must possess in himself alone the four qualities united. ” “ But where is such a lackey to be found ? ” “ Not to be found ! ” cried Athos .
Do you wish for a name ?
We lived together , we loved , we hated together ; we shed , we mingled our blood together , and too probably , I may still add , that there may be yet a bond between us closer even than that of friendship ; perhaps there may be the bond of crime ; for we four , we once did condemn , judge and slay a human being whom we had not any right to cut off from this world , although apparently fitter for hell than for this life .
He was dressed in violet-tinted velvet , trimmed with silk of the same color .
The boat they were in could not make a long voyage ; there was no vessel at anchor outside the harbor ; he thought , perhaps , they were going to leave him on some distant point .
so much the better ! ” “ But what has De Rochefort to do with this manner you have of invading my room ? ” “ Ah , sir !
They have commissioned me to write to the major to demand papers , and here they are .
Only , might not these betraying marks have attracted other eyes than those for whom they were made ?
He arose , paced a while up and down the hut , and then , suddenly stopping before Mercédès , with his eyes glowing and his hands clenched , — “ Say , Mercédès , ” he said , “ once for all , is this your final determination ? ” “ I love Edmond Dantès , ” the young girl calmly replied , “ and none but Edmond shall ever be my husband. ” “ And you will always love him ? ” “ As long as I live. ” Fernand let fall his head like a defeated man , heaved a sigh that was like a groan , and then suddenly looking her full in the face , with clenched teeth and expanded nostrils , said , — “ But if he is dead—— ” “ If he is dead , I shall die too. ” “ If he has forgotten you—— ” “ Mercédès ! ” called a joyous voice from without , — “ Mercédès ! ” “ Ah , ” exclaimed the young girl , blushing with delight , and fairly leaping in excess of love , “ you see he has not forgotten me , for here he is ! ” And rushing towards the door , she opened it , saying , “ Here , Edmond , here I am ! ” Fernand , pale and trembling , drew back , like a traveller at the sight of a serpent , and fell into a chair beside him .
neither you nor myself , but Fernand ; you knew very well that I threw the paper into a corner of the room—indeed , I fancied I had destroyed it. ” “ Oh , no , ” replied Caderousse , “ that I can answer for , you did not .
Mademoiselle Eugénie was dressed with elegant simplicity in a figured white silk dress , and a white rose half concealed in her jet black hair was her only ornament , unaccompanied by a single jewel .
do not speak so loud , madame ; he is there. ” “ He is there !
Do not exaggerate your duty .
Night came , and with it the preparation for departure , and these preparations served to conceal Dantès ’ agitation .
I neither hate nor blame the cardinal , and your opinions will be held ever sacred by me .
As to D ’ Artagnan , afraid of some feint , he still stood on the defensive .
During all this time , the general , on whom they thought to have relied as on a brother , manifested evidently signs of discontent and repugnance .
When they entered the port , it was already night .
I am willing to help rebuild your fortune , but I will not be an accomplice in the ruin of others. ” “ But since I tell you , ” cried Danglars , “ that with these three million—— ” “ Do you expect to recover your position , sir , without touching those three million ? ” “ I hope so , if the marriage should take place and confirm my credit. ” “ Shall you be able to pay M. Cavalcanti the five hundred thousand francs you promise for my dowry ? ” “ He shall receive them on returning from the mayor ’ s20. ” “ Very well ! ” “ What next ?
D ’ Artagnan and Porthos moved so as to plant themselves between the person entering and the cardinal .
The man raised his head and the duke was about to utter a cry of surprise .
my friend ! ” cried Athos , suddenly , “ where have you brought us ?
Franz now looked upon another scene of enchantment ; the table was splendidly covered , and once convinced of this important point he cast his eyes around him .
You will give your name to the captain , who will bring you to me .
M. de Beaufort did not venture to draw the cardinal ’ s fat face .
The queen is likely to follow Mazarin ’ s counsels and to have me tried. ” “ Do you think she loves this Italian so much as they say she does ? ” “ Did she not love an Englishman ? ” “ My friend , she is a woman. ” “ No , no , you are deceived—she is a queen. ” “ Dear friend , I shall sacrifice myself and go and see Anne of Austria. ” “ Adieu , Athos , I am going to raise an army. ” “ For what purpose ? ” “ To come back and besiege Rueil. ” “ Where shall we meet again ? ” “ At the foot of the cardinal ’ s gallows. ” The two friends departed—Aramis to return to Paris , Athos to take measures preparatory to an interview with the queen .
“ What vessel is that ? ” asked Milady .
“ What is the matter , my dear M. Mouston ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Porthos and Aramis remained behind to encounter the jokes of the dragoon and the Swiss .
“ We are going again , it appears , to have our hides pierced in all sorts of ways. ” “ You will take your musketoon and your pistols. ” “ There , now !
“ This Athos was connected with three young musketeers , named Porthos , D ’ Artagnan , and—— ” He stopped short .
if I knew that he did I should know all. ” The conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Raoul .
as my grandfather used to say , I once reigned in Paris !
It is a gift from my beautiful Englishwoman , or rather Frenchwoman—for I am convinced she was born in France , though I have not questioned her. ” “ That ring comes from Milady ? ” cried Athos , with a voice in which it was easy to detect strong emotion .
This person , a sailor , of turbulent character , and whom I suspected of Bonapartism , has been secretly to the Island of Elba .
The valet led Felton through a large hall in which waited the deputies from La Rochelle , headed by the Prince de Soubise , and introduced him into a closet where Buckingham , just out of the bath , was finishing his toilet , upon which , as at all times , he bestowed extraordinary attention .
“ In getting introduced to her , my principal object is to ascertain what part she plays at court. ” “ The part she plays , _pardieu ! _ It is not difficult to divine that , after all you have told me .
Being a few paces in advance she whispered to the lackeys , “ A thousand pistoles to each of you , if you will assist my escape ; but if you deliver me up to your masters , I have near at hand avengers who will make you pay dearly for my death. ” Grimaud hesitated .
“ I understand , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ you wish to tell me you have hunted the lion ? ” Ali smiled with triumphant pride as he signified that he had indeed both chased and captured many lions .
“ Ah , it is you , monsieur !
He felt as if each stroke of the hammer fell upon his heart .
If , on the sixteenth day after your departure , at eight o ’ clock in the evening you are not here , no money—even if it be but five minutes past eight. ” “ Then , monsieur , ” said Planchet , “ you must buy me a watch. ” “ Take this , ” said Athos , with his usual careless generosity , giving him his own , “ and be a good lad .
Morrel was conducted along a dark passage , which led to a little door opening on the garden , soon found the spot where he had entered , with the assistance of the shrubs gained the top of the wall , and by his ladder was in an instant in the clover-field where his cabriolet was still waiting for him .
Look , Fernand , your eyes are better than mine .
The Duchess de Longueville has invited me to pass a few days in Normandy , and has deputed me , while her son is being baptized , to go and prepare her residence at Rouen ; after which , if nothing new occurs , I shall go and bury myself in my convent at Noisy-le-Sec. ” “ And I , ” said Athos , “ am returning to Bragelonne .
“ Call the prince ; inform him that it is his turn to sign , ” cried Danglars to one of the floorkeepers .
Where for ? ” “ For La Rochelle. ” “ He need not sail ! ” cried Milady , forgetting her usual presence of mind .
The Englishman easily found the entries relative to the Abbé Faria ; but it seemed that the history which the inspector had related interested him greatly , for after having perused the first documents he turned over the leaves until he reached the deposition respecting Edmond Dantès .
The marchioness raised her head at this word , and beholding the man who so forcibly reminded her of her deeply-regretted child , who still lived for her in Valentine , she felt touched at the name of mother , and bursting into tears , she fell on her knees before an armchair , where she buried her venerable head .
The palace rose from the bosom of the water , and to see the number of boats around it one would have fancied one ’ s self not in Paris , but in Venice .
A private room had been prepared for the king and another for Monsieur .
“ Certainly—certainly , ” cried Franz .
had been distinguished by his white plume at the battle of Ivry .
“ Where shall we pass the night ? ” he inquired .
“ Really , he is by no means a light load ! ” said the other bearer , sitting on the edge of the hand-barrow .
We will accompany them only to a little village in Limousin , lying between Tulle and Angouleme—a little village called Roche-l ’ Abeille. ” Madame de Chevreuse uttered a cry of surprise , and looked at Athos with an expression of astonishment that made the old musketeer smile .
Say to him that when he is alone it will help us if he will knock on the floor , for then I can continue my work in safety .
“ Yes , yes ; this is an adventure worthy a place in the varied career of that royal bandit .
30261m “ It is a long time , madame , ” said the procureur , describing a half-circle with his chair , so as to place himself exactly opposite to Madame Danglars , — “ it is a long time since I had the pleasure of speaking alone with you , and I regret that we have only now met to enter upon a painful conversation. ” “ Nevertheless , sir , you see I have answered your first appeal , although certainly the conversation must be much more painful for me than for you. ” Villefort smiled bitterly .
“ But there are no more , ” said she .
On the eve of departure I carry my egotism so far as to say , ‘ Do not forget me , my kind friends , for probably you will never see me again. ’ ” “ Never see you again ? ” exclaimed Emmanuel , while two large tears rolled down Julie ’ s cheeks , “ never behold you again ?
HOW , WITHOUT INCOMMDING HIMSELF , ATHOS PROCURES HIS EQUIPMENT Chapter XXXIX .
Again the abbé looked at him , then mournfully shook his head ; but in accordance with Dantès ’ request , he began to speak of other matters .
Bonacieux once again , and satisfy himself that he had not been mistaken , that the appointment was at St .
He turned around and seized his new antagonist by the wrist , when he started back , exclaiming , “ Raoul ! ” “ Raoul ? ” cried Athos .
In what can I have offended her—I who ever since I have known her have lived at her feet like a slave ?
“ Well ? ” asked the queen “ Well , madame , ” replied the valet , “ I followed them as far as the gates .
It was not want of courage that prevented her putting this resolution into execution ; but her religious feelings came to her aid and saved her .
Planchet , Grimaud , Mousqueton , and Bazin set off at full speed .
“ And a little bit of a thief. ” “ Oh , sir !
“ Well , monsieur , ” said he , “ you appear to be more stupid than I am , for you forget there is a little quarrel to arrange between us two. ” “ Ah , ” said the Englishman , “ is it you , my master ?
Yes , this self , of whom I thought so much , of whom I was so proud , who had appeared so worthless in the dungeons of the Château d ’ If , and whom I had succeeded in making so great , will be but a lump of clay tomorrow .
Do not leave me !
It turned out as D ’ Artagnan had foreseen .
He hoped , by means of loyal excuses , to make a friend of Athos , whose lordly air and austere bearing pleased him much .
This is the reason why Monsieur the Principal has proposed to me the following subject , which has not yet been treated upon , and in which I perceive there is matter for magnificent elaboration— ‘ _Utraque manus in benedicendo clericis inferioribus necessaria est_. ’ ” D ’ Artagnan , whose erudition we are well acquainted with , evinced no more interest on hearing this quotation than he had at that of M. de Tréville in allusion to the gifts he pretended that D ’ Artagnan had received from the Duke of Buckingham .
Still , when Morrel had finished , he shut his eyes several times , which was his manner of saying “ No. ” “ No ? ” said Morrel ; “ you disapprove of this second project , as you did of the first ? ” “ I do , ” signified the old man .
“ Ah , _perbacco_ , indispensable , were they ? ” “ Certainly they were ; supposing there were to be doubts raised as to the validity of your marriage or the legitimacy of your child ? ” “ True , ” said the major , “ there might be doubts raised. ” “ In that case your son would be very unpleasantly situated. ” “ It would be fatal to his interests. ” “ It might cause him to fail in some desirable matrimonial alliance. ” “ _O peccato ! _ ” “ You must know that in France they are very particular on these points ; it is not sufficient , as in Italy , to go to the priest and say , ‘ We love each other , and want you to marry us. ’ Marriage is a civil affair in France , and in order to marry in an orthodox manner you must have papers which undeniably establish your identity. ” “ That is the misfortune !
This is not a Corsican _maquis_ but an English garden ; badly kept , I own , but still you must not calumniate it for that. ” “ Monsieur , I implore you do not stay there ! ” “ I think you are going mad , Bertuccio , ” said the count coldly .
“ Good-day to you ; have you slept well ? ” “ Excellently , Athos , but what are you looking for ?
He turned around and Mordaunt stood before him .
The Count of Monte Cristo is unquestionably a man of first-rate breeding and knowledge of the world. ” “ Then you accept his offer ? ” said the host .
“ My brother , ” continued she , “ was not that my Lord Buckingham whom I saw on the jetty this evening as we arrived ? ” “ Himself .
As I was saying last night , they intend me to be ransomed .
Five minutes after , Andrea left the hotel , completely disguised , took a cabriolet , and ordered the driver to take him to the Cheval Rouge , at Picpus .
“ Ah !
At length , he one day received a letter , stating that the abductors of his son now offered to restore him , or at least to give notice where he might be found , on condition of receiving a large sum of money , by way of ransom .
It was a melancholy sight—that of these six men , traveling in silence , each plunged in his own thoughts , sad as despair , gloomy as chastisement .
When in the middle of the room the general was invited to remove his bandage , he did so immediately , and was surprised to see so many well-known faces in a society of whose existence he had till then been ignorant .
“ Mercédès begged for six months more in which to await and mourn for Edmond. ” “ So that , ” said the abbé , with a bitter smile , “ that makes eighteen months in all .
“ With all my heart .
He had the resolution to stop with this .
0277m “ Pretty strong rum ! ” said Dantès , wiping his brow with his sleeve .
“ Ah !
“ My good Nanette , be quiet , I beseech you , ” said Broussel .
The duke had been five years in prison , and now to him , looking back upon them , those five years , which had passed so slowly , seemed not so long a time as were the two days , the forty-eight hours , which still parted him from the time fixed for his escape .
58 .
“ And you have discovered a means of regaining our freedom , have you not ? ” asked Dantès eagerly .
In the chamber of D ’ Artagnan and Porthos the two soldiers had been found bound and gagged .
“ How sprightly you are , ” said Caderousse ; “ One would say you were already in possession of your property. ” “ No , unfortunately ; but when I do obtain it—— ” “ Well ? ” “ I shall remember old friends , I can tell you that. ” “ Yes , since you have such a good memory. ” “ What do you want ?
Before him rose a grotesque mass of rocks , that resembled nothing so much as a vast fire petrified at the moment of its most fervent combustion .
“ Of course you sent for a doctor ? ” “ Immediately ; but , as I have told you , it was too late. ” “ Yes ; but then he could tell of what complaint the poor marquis had died. ” “ Oh , yes , sir , he told me ; it appears to have been an apoplectic stroke. ” “ And what did you do then ? ” “ M .
I will go and see about that , and then we shall have the honor of presenting ourselves to the general and receiving his commands for his eminence. ” “ You think of starting at once , then ? ” inquired Mordaunt .
“ Bah , ” said Debray , when she had left , “ these are fine projects !
Whereupon Grimaud , observing the duke ’ s disappointment , drew from his pocket a purse filled with gold and handed it to him .
It is true the cardinal had been particularly ill-tempered .
You give away horses worth a thousand louis ; you save the lives of ladies of high rank and beauty ; under the name of Major Black you run thoroughbreds ridden by tiny urchins not larger than marmots ; then , when you have carried off the golden trophy of victory , instead of setting any value on it , you give it to the first handsome woman you think of ! ” “ And who has filled your head with all this nonsense ? ” “ Why , in the first place , I heard it from Madame Danglars , who , by the by , is dying to see you in her box , or to have you seen there by others ; secondly , I learned it from Beauchamp ’ s journal ; and thirdly , from my own imagination .
“ Yes , if it isn ’ t contrary to the rules. ” “ Oh , no , ” said the gardener ; “ not in the least , since there is no danger that anyone can possibly understand what we are saying. ” “ I have been told , ” said the count , “ that you do not always yourselves understand the signals you repeat. ” “ That is true , sir , and that is what I like best , ” said the man , smiling .
“ Bravo !
One of his guns was swung over his shoulder , Gaetano had the other , and a sailor held his rifle ; his dress , half artist , half dandy , did not excite any suspicion , and , consequently , no disquietude .
You see in me , such as I am , a person sentenced to be hung. ” “ And on what account ? ” “ I rescued from the hands of Mazarin ’ s police a noble lord whom they were conducting back to the Bastile , where he had been for five years. ” “ Will you name him ? ” “ Oh , you know him well , my lord—it is Count de Rochefort. ” “ Ah !
“ With what ideas does that letter inspire you ? ” “ Oh , it is simple enough , madame ; it inspires me with the idea that M. Danglars has left suspiciously. ” “ Certainly ; but is this all you have to say to me ? ” “ I do not understand you , ” said Debray with freezing coldness .
“ I do not think so , ” added Château-Renaud , with the air of a man who knows the whole of the European nobility perfectly .
you lose ground , you are turning ?
“ Go to , go to !
From time to time , by the light of the moon , which began to rise , Franz imagined that he saw something like a sentinel appear at various points among the ruins , and suddenly retreat into the darkness on a signal from Peppino .
Endure nothing from anyone except Monsieur the Cardinal and the king .
He came down into the kitchen , where your doublet was .
I don ’ t think he put the faucet in again .
“ When I informed him that your lordship was the _protégé_ of Monsieur de Tréville , and that you even had a letter for that illustrious gentleman , he appeared to be very much disturbed , and asked me where that letter was , and immediately came down into the kitchen , where he knew your doublet was. ” “ Then that ’ s my thief , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
But what changes occur !
De Winter has changed his usual stupidity into a strange prudence .
I embrace you with all my heart .
“ Nothing , nothing , only shut the window .
Old Dantès , who was only sustained by hope , lost all hope at Napoleon ’ s downfall .
What these stuffs did there , it was impossible to say ; they awaited , while gratifying the eyes , a destination unknown to their owner himself ; in the meantime they filled the place with their golden and silky reflections .
The queen walked first , every one followed her .
Villefort had never been so concise and eloquent .
“ Really , sir , ” D ’ Artagnan said to him , “ I am pleased to find one with whom to talk in my own poor tongue .
Athos , who imagined that he saw him move , was the first to go up to him .
Valentine arose , placed a chair for Morrel , requested Barrois not to admit anyone , and having tenderly embraced her grandfather , and sorrowfully taken leave of Morrel , she went away .
Perhaps never in her life had this woman , who had experienced so many opposite and powerful emotions , felt her heart beat so violently .
If he knew anything about horses he would dispute the price. ” “ Faith !
What was passing in that brain , so loaded with dreadful secrets ?
Now , my daughter , learn from my lips how you may alleviate this misfortune , so far as it will affect you. ” “ Oh , ” cried Eugénie , “ you are a bad physiognomist , if you imagine I deplore on my own account the catastrophe of which you warn me .
“ Well , mother , I yesterday engaged myself as substitute in the Spahis , ” 25 added the young man , lowering his eyes with a certain feeling of shame , for even he was unconscious of the sublimity of his self-abasement .
It was not difficult to conquer , as she had hitherto done , men prompt to let themselves be seduced , and whom the gallant education of a court led quickly into her net .
You shall soon see him .
I can not recollect whether it was by steel or by poison ; only of this I am sure , I have dreamed he was dead , and you know my dreams never deceive me .
D ’ Artagnan led his horse under the arch of the bridge .
In short , it was you who have but now in this chamber , seated in this chair I now fill , made an engagement with Cardinal Richelieu to cause the Duke of Buckingham to be assassinated , in exchange for the promise he has made you to allow you to assassinate D ’ Artagnan. ” Milady was livid .
He had written to the Duc de Beaufort to come and the duke was about to arrive , and he would find Paris tranquil .
During the examination of Milady by the officer , as may well be imagined , Milady on her part was not less scrutinizing in her glances .
Well , all that was useless .
Bonacieux , “ he will rouse the whole quarter. ” Bonacieux called a long time ; but as such cries , on account of their frequency , brought nobody in the Rue des Fossoyeurs , and as lately the mercer ’ s house had a bad name , finding that nobody came , he went out continuing to call , his voice being heard fainter and fainter as he went in the direction of the Rue du Bac .
1.B .
Behind her , but in deep shadow , was the outline of a masculine figure ; but the features of this latter personage it was not possible to distinguish .
Mordaunt had found it out and was gazing on his dead relative with an expression of malignant hatred .
“ My political opinions ! ” replied Dantès .
“ You don ’ t think of holding out against a whole regiment , do you ? ” said Porthos .
Respect to Fallen Majesty .
“ _Quemadmodum inter cœlorum immensitatem_. ” Aramis cast a glance upon D ’ Artagnan to see what effect all this produced , and found his friend gaping enough to split his jaws .
Behind this group walked the surgeon ; and behind the surgeon the door closed .
“ We have only lived up to the present time because we believed each other dead , and because a remembrance is less oppressive than a living creature , though a remembrance is sometimes devouring. ” “ But , ” said Milady , in a hollow , faint voice , “ what brings you back to me , and what do you want with me ? ” “ I wish to tell you that though remaining invisible to your eyes , I have not lost sight of you. ” “ You know what I have done ? ” “ I can relate to you , day by day , your actions from your entrance to the service of the cardinal to this evening. ” A smile of incredulity passed over the pale lips of Milady .
Adieu ; I will go and try if there are any means of speaking to him. ” “ Go straight to his box ; that will be the simplest plan. ” “ But I have never been presented. ” “ Presented to whom ? ” “ To the beautiful Greek. ” “ You say she is only a slave ? ” “ While you assert that she is a queen , or at least a princess .
“ How delighted I am to have found you !
We ought not , therefore , I think , to act toward a queen so illustrious as your majesty as we should act toward a woman of our lowlier condition .
Mercédès , I must revenge myself , for I suffered fourteen years , —fourteen years I wept , I cursed ; now I tell you , Mercédès , I must revenge myself. ” The count , fearing to yield to the entreaties of her he had so ardently loved , called his sufferings to the assistance of his hatred .
At length a sense of dignity prevailed , and if she did not entirely master her agitation , she at least succeeded in preventing the fall of a single tear .
on his account I add two hundred crowns. ” “ Scoundrel ! ” muttered D ’ Artagnan .
What would you do ? ” “ I should give up Broussel , ” said Porthos .
His friend !
“ What ! ” said he , “ does not the count know where the house he purchases is situated ? ” “ No , ” returned the count .
The Deputy Procureur du Roi In one of the aristocratic mansions built by Puget in the Rue du Grand Cours opposite the Medusa fountain , a second marriage feast was being celebrated , almost at the same hour with the nuptial repast given by Dantès .
Franz congratulated Albert , who received his congratulations with the air of a man conscious that they are merited .
Come , monsieur , come ! ” and both set off towards the capital at full gallop .
Confess , Monsieur Mordaunt , that you are anxious to kill some of us. ” “ All , ” replied Mordaunt .
The Man in the Mask .
This battle won by me , the king will have no further resources in England or in Scotland ; and if he is not captured or killed , he will endeavor to pass over into France to recruit soldiers and to refurnish himself with arms and money .
Father and Son Chapter 3 .
Andrea felt his heart leap with joy .
She ran to the table , and seizing the knife which Felton had laid down , exclaimed , “ And by what right will you prevent me from dying ? ” “ Great God ! ” exclaimed Felton , on seeing the knife glitter in her hand .
“ The white flag , _morbleu ! _ We must not leave a flag in the hands of the enemy , even if that flag be but a napkin. ” And Athos ran back to the bastion , mounted the platform , and bore off the flag ; but as the Rochellais had arrived within musket range , they opened a terrible fire upon this man , who appeared to expose himself for pleasure ’ s sake .
And such magnificent hair !
In his eyes and to his conviction , Mme .
They disobeyed orders. ” “ I beg of your majesty , then , ” said Athos , calmly and not replying to Mazarin , “ to quash these arrests of Messieurs d ’ Artagnan and du Vallon. ” “ What you ask is merely an affair of discipline and does not concern me , ” said the queen .
“ He relates that he met at Brussels Rochefort , the _âme damnée_ of the cardinal disguised as a Capuchin , and that this cursed Rochefort , thanks to his disguise , had tricked Monsieur de Laigues , like a ninny as he is. ” “ A ninny , indeed ! ” said Porthos ; “ but is the matter certain ? ” “ I had it from Aramis , ” replied the Musketeer .
what do you demand ? ” “ That thou shalt soon know , ” shouted a chorus of horsemen .
“ I hope I am not the cause. ” “ Hush , ” said Andrea .
Who informed you this was the master I propose to you ?
“ Ah , ” said the count , “ you have , then , not forgotten that I saved your life ; that is strange , for it is a week ago. ” 20203m “ No , excellency ; and never shall I forget it , ” returned Peppino , with an accent of profound gratitude .
“ Let it be a million , ” said Caderousse ; “ you can never have so much as I wish you. ” “ Thank you , ” said the young man .
“ I don ’ t know what it was .
In the alcove of this chamber was a door concealed in the tapestry which the duke opened with a little gold key which he wore suspended from his neck by a chain of the same metal .
we shall find him changed into a broken down old man , with garnet nose and eyes that slobber ; we shall find him extended on some lawn , whence he will look at us with a languid eye and peradventure will not recognize us .
He hired the apartment in which he lived furnished , passed only a few hours in the day there , and rarely slept there .
You have scarcely seen my mother ; you shall have an opportunity of observing her more closely .
D ’ Artagnan , I have always loved you as my son ; Porthos , we slept six years side by side ; Aramis is your brother as well as mine , and Aramis has once loved you , as I love you now and as I have ever loved you .
“ ‘ Relate your story , madame , ’ said he , wishing , no doubt , to profit by the absence of the husband , so that the latter could not influence the wife ’ s story , to see if the two recitals tallied .
“ Well , my dear sir , ” said Danglars to Fernand , “ here is a marriage which does not appear to make everybody happy. ” “ It drives me to despair , ” said Fernand .
The four friends saw all this—not a single detail of this fearful scene escaped them .
I tell you that you were wrong. ” The voice of the king was tremulous with anger .
What could you do against a dozen bandits who spring out of some pit , ruin , or aqueduct , and level their pieces at you ? ” “ Eh , _parbleu ! _—they should kill me. ” The innkeeper turned to Franz with an air that seemed to say , “ Your friend is decidedly mad. ” “ My dear Albert , ” returned Franz , “ your answer is sublime , and worthy the ‘ _Let him die_ , ’ of Corneille , only , when Horace made that answer , the safety of Rome was concerned ; but , as for us , it is only to gratify a whim , and it would be ridiculous to risk our lives for so foolish a motive. ” Albert poured himself out a glass of _lacryma Christi_ , which he sipped at intervals , muttering some unintelligible words .
Chapter XIII .
The two witnesses followed .
“ We can now part ; come , I shall engage your passage. ” “ And you , my dear boy ? ” “ I shall stay here for a few days longer ; we must accustom ourselves to parting .
What I was saying , Villefort , was , that the Bonapartists had not our sincerity , enthusiasm , or devotion. ” “ They had , however , what supplied the place of those fine qualities , ” replied the young man , “ and that was fanaticism .
D ’ Artagnan , without losing sight of the lady of the red cushion , continued to watch the proceedings of Porthos , which amused him greatly .
Albert and Château-Renaud exchanged a second look , more full of amazement than the first .
On quitting the study they left the kitchen on the right , and entered the reception room .
“ And , indeed , I am not sorry to quit Paris ; I had need of distraction. ” “ Well , you will have distractions enough , gentlemen , be assured , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
We profited by this respite on the part of the government to make friends everywhere .
Our duty is fulfilled. ” “ Not yet. ” said Aramis ; “ we have still a word to say to these gentlemen. ” And turning to Chatillon : “ Sir , be so good as not to go away without giving me an opportunity to tell you something I can not say before the queen. ” Chatillon bowed in token of assent and they all went out , stopping at the window of a gallery on the ground floor .
No one at Villefort ’ s doubted that a duel would ensue from it .
He no longer possessed strength , will , power , or feeling ; he followed where they led him .
“ Scratches himself ? ” inquired the duke , “ what does your majesty mean ? ” “ Yes , indeed , my dear duke .
One day when they were talking over their plans for the future , they heard two or three reports of firearms , and then suddenly a man came out of the wood , near which the two young persons used to graze their flocks , and hurried towards them .
Oh , M. de Villefort , I beseech your indulgence for him. ” Villefort , as we have seen , belonged to the aristocratic party at Marseilles , Morrel to the plebeian ; the first was a royalist , the other suspected of Bonapartism .
And besides , he considered it most expedient , without exhibiting too much ill-will , to follow to the end his role as confessor .
“ Now , ” said Athos , “ sleep , or try to sleep , my friends , and I will watch. ” In a few moments , notwithstanding their wet clothes , the icy blast that blew and the previous scene of terror , these hardy adventurers , with their iron frames , inured to every hardship , threw themselves down , intending to profit by the advice of Athos , who sat at the helm , pensively wakeful , guiding the little bark the way it was to go , his eyes fixed on the heavens , as if he sought to verify not only the road to France , but the benign aspect of protecting Providence .
Chapter XLI .
“ What wounded man ? ” “ The former executioner of Bethune , who has just been brought in here , assassinated by Spaniards , and who is now being confessed by an Augustine friar. ” “ The old executioner of Bethune , ” muttered Grimaud ; “ a man between fifty-five and sixty , tall , strong , swarthy , black hair and beard ? ” “ That is he , except that his beard has turned gray and his hair is white ; do you know him ? ” asked the host .
Athos , on horseback , without his sword and kept in sight by Comminges , followed the cardinal in silence .
Many said your father had only to show himself to crush the charge against him ; many others said he would not appear ; while some asserted that they had seen him start for Brussels ; and others went to the police-office to inquire if he had taken out a passport .
This letter ” ( as he spoke , Maximilian drew a letter from the purse and gave it to the count ) — “ this letter was written by him the day that my father had taken a desperate resolution , and this diamond was given by the generous unknown to my sister as her dowry. ” Monte Cristo opened the letter , and read it with an indescribable feeling of delight .
“ ‘ You have had three horses foundered or killed ? ’ he asked me .
“ These Rochellais are bungling fellows , ” said Athos ; “ how many have we killed of them—a dozen ? ” “ Or fifteen. ” “ How many did we crush under the wall ? ” “ Eight or ten. ” “ And in exchange for all that not even a scratch !
“ Stay , I think I told my steward yesterday to attend to this ; perhaps I can render you this slight service also. ” He extended his hand , and rang the bell thrice .
A deputation was therefore sent to the queen to entreat her to return to Paris ; but she not only declined to receive the deputies , but sent an intimation by Chancellor Seguier , implying that if the parliament did not humble itself before her majesty by negativing all the questions that had been the cause of the quarrel , Paris would be besieged the very next day .
that is all I require .
Morrel had long thought of Danglars , but had kept away from some instinctive motive , and had delayed as long as possible availing himself of this last resource .
But the prisoners were in their saddles and lost no time hastening to the nearest gate .
how delightful to see you again , dear friend ! ” he cried , in a voice which was now changed from a baritone into a bass , “ you ’ ve not then forgotten me ? ” “ Forget you !
We loved sporting of all kinds better than anything ; so that he related to me how in the plains of the Pampas the natives hunt the tiger and the wild bull with simple running nooses which they throw to a distance of twenty or thirty paces the end of a cord with such nicety ; but in face of the proof I was obliged to acknowledge the truth of the recital .
You have a sad air. ” “ Alas , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it is because I am the most unfortunate. ” “ Tell me. ” “ Presently , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
She advanced some steps towards the staircase , and listened .
“ My poor Eugénie , you must conceal your passion for the fine arts. ” “ I admire all that is beautiful , ” returned the young lady .
Then fearing that his paroxysm might get the better of him , he clutched with one hand the branch of a tree against which he was leaning , and with the other convulsively grasped the dagger with a carved handle which was in his belt , and which , unwittingly , he drew from the scabbard from time to time .
This chamber was a sort of garret , situated in the Rue des Fossoyeurs , near the Luxembourg .
“ Once upon a time there lived a queen—a powerful monarch—who reigned over one of the greatest kingdoms of the universe ; and a minister ; and this minister wished much to injure the queen , whom once he had loved too well .
In fact , he slowly and respectfully approached the prelate and spoke to him privately a few words , to which the latter responded by an affirmative sign .
A man of spirit is not to be reminded of such services .
The cardinal , therefore , got up , perfumed himself , dressed , and went to the queen to tell her what had detained him .
“ Gentlemen , ” resumed the newcomer , “ you are , as I am , in search of a woman who , ” added he , with a terrible smile , “ must have passed this way , for I see a corpse. ” The three friends remained mute—for although the voice as well as the countenance reminded them of someone they had seen , they could not remember under what circumstances .
If the second copy is also defective , you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem .
For three days the mercury had been five or six degrees below freezing and the steps were covered with ice .
The little company started off at a trot on the road to Cambrin , where they expected to find the prince .
“ Oh , sire , ” replied the minister , “ we have no occasion to invent any ; every day our desks are loaded with most circumstantial denunciations , coming from hosts of people who hope for some return for services which they seek to render , but can not ; they trust to fortune , and rely upon some unexpected event in some way to justify their predictions. ” “ Well , sir , go , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ and remember that I am waiting for you. ” “ I will but go and return , sire ; I shall be back in ten minutes. ” “ And I , sire , ” said M. de Blacas , “ will go and find my messenger. ” “ Wait , sir , wait , ” said Louis XVIII .
The first door , barricaded with furniture , had aroused in him certain suspicions , but without communicating his suspicions to any one he had patiently worked his way into the midst of all that confusion .
A young priest , with a simple and trustful heart , performed the duties of the church of that convent .
At ten o ’ clock the vessel cast anchor in the harbor of Dover , and at half past ten D ’ Artagnan placed his foot on English land , crying , “ Here I am at last ! ” But that was not all ; they must get to London .
But instead of either of these , he saw nothing but a strange face , sunburnt , and encircled by a beard , with eyes brilliant as carbuncles , and a smile upon the mouth which displayed a perfect set of white teeth , pointed and sharp as the wolf ’ s or jackal ’ s .
Adieu. ” “ Adieu , your holiness , ” said the mendicant , opening the door and bending low before the prelate .
It was as if the young girl beheld the head of Medusa .
“ Speak out , sir , ” said Mordaunt .
You yourself gave me this comb. ” “ I was very wrong , my lord , for in giving it to you I acted in opposition to my orders. ” The duke looked furiously at Grimaud .
As for you , Morrel , this is the secret of my conduct towards you .
I knew very well that he was incapable of defending me ; but as he could serve us in other ways , I wished to inform him. ” “ Of what ? ” “ Oh , that is not my secret ; I must not , therefore , tell you. ” “ Besides , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ pardon me , madame , if , guardsman as I am , I remind you of prudence—besides , I believe we are not here in a very proper place for imparting confidences .
Without him I should probably at this moment be a dead fish in the nets at Saint Cloud , for it was a question of nothing less than throwing me into the river .
In the middle of the street they saw Grimaud and Blaisois , who were coming to find their masters .
“ Decidedly , ” said Danglars , with the perspiration on his forehead , “ I must be under arrest. ” And he threw himself back in the calash , not this time to sleep , but to think .
Skirmishing .
Morrel soon perceived a man standing among the rocks , apparently awaiting a sign from them to advance , and pointed him out to Valentine .
For that purpose I mean to keep you all to myself. ” Franz protested he could not defer his pursuit till the following day , for many reasons .
Well , how much for the equipments ? ” “ If we say one hundred pistoles for the three—— ” “ Good for the hundred pistoles ; there remains , then , three hundred and fifty. ” Porthos made a sign of assent .
At half-past six the duke arose and said very gravely : “ Certainly , Caesar was the greatest man of ancient times. ” “ You think so , my lord ? ” answered La Ramee .
Suddenly the door opened , an ecclesiastic in episcopal robes entered , followed by two guards , to whom the king waved an imperious gesture .
When I need your assistance , and the moment arrives , I will come to you , count. ” “ Well , I rely upon your promise .
Take what precautions you please , if it is any satisfaction to you to do so ; but rely upon my obtaining the reprieve I seek. ” “ Remember , the execution is fixed for the day after tomorrow , and that you have but one day to work in. ” “ And what of that ?
Someone approached the bed and drew back the curtains .
This concerns your head , I warn you. ” “ Who are you , then ? ” demanded D ’ Artagnan , lowering the point of his sword , but without yet surrendering it .
“ The Ancona road , ” replied the baron .
You formerly lived , I believe in the Allées de Meilhan , on the fourth floor ? ” 0325m “ I did. ” “ And you followed the business of a tailor ? ” “ True , I was a tailor , till the trade fell off .
The Carnival was to commence on the morrow ; therefore Albert had not an instant to lose in setting forth the programme of his hopes , expectations , and claims to notice .
“ The others , my lord ! ” “ The second—I heard his name by chance ; for before fighting us , these four gentlemen told us their names ; the second was called the Comte de la Fere .
This was a sort of boudoir , circular , and lighted only from the roof , which consisted of rose-colored glass .
“ Knock , ” said the count , “ and announce me. ” Bertuccio knocked , the door opened , and the concierge appeared .
“ Oh !
A wild goat had passed before the mouth of the cave , and was feeding at a little distance .
More than three hundred soldiers of all kinds were assembled at the gate of the camp ; and in a separate group might be distinguished M. de Busigny , the dragoon , the Swiss , and the fourth bettor .
“ All has gone according to my wishes .
“ My friend , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo in a tone of exquisite sweetness .
And after this reasoning she slept easily .
But I can ’ t be severe with him , he is really _so_ bright. ” After the usual civilities , the count inquired after M. de Villefort .
He lowered his gun in the direction of the traveler ; then , when he was within ten paces of him , he commenced a conversation which almost always ended by the traveler ’ s abandoning his purse to save his life .
Well !
“ If we were to go together to Luigi Vampa , I am sure he would not refuse you Albert ’ s freedom. ” “ What influence can I possibly have over a bandit ? ” “ Have you not just rendered him a service that can never be forgotten ? ” “ What is that ? ” “ Have you not saved Peppino ’ s life ? ” “ Well , well , ” said the count , “ who told you that ? ” “ No matter ; I know it. ” The count knit his brows , and remained silent an instant .
“ To tell the truth , count , if I knew less of you , I should think that you were less brave than you are. ” “ Because I sigh when thinking of someone I am leaving ?
The count then looking over into the street , saw the man who appeared to be waiting run in the same direction , and place himself against the angle of the wall where Caderousse would come over .
“ What think you of it ? ” inquired Athos .
Spada died on the threshold of the vineyard ; the nephew expired at his own door , making signs which his wife could not comprehend .
“ Suppose I happen to strangle him ? ” “ To be sure there would only be a Swiss the less in the world ; but you will not do so , I hope .
That will do ; I will be there. ” “ Endeavor not to make me wait ; for at quarter past twelve I will cut off your ears as you run. ” “ Good ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ I will be there ten minutes before twelve. ” And he set off running as if the devil possessed him , hoping that he might yet find the stranger , whose slow pace could not have carried him far .
“ Father , ” said the young man , “ I have the honor of presenting to you the Count of Monte Cristo , the generous friend whom I had the good fortune to meet in the critical situation of which I have told you. ” “ You are most welcome , monsieur , ” said the Count of Morcerf , saluting Monte Cristo with a smile , “ and monsieur has rendered our house , in preserving its only heir , a service which insures him our eternal gratitude. ” As he said these words , the count of Morcerf pointed to a chair , while he seated himself in another opposite the window .
He was in a subterranean passage by which he was to leave Vincennes .
The cardinal drew near to the king , and placed in his hand a small casket .
If you have forgotten , as he is still living , I can write to him and he will send me information on the subject. ” A cold sweat burst from the brow of Milady .
“ Your fortune exceeds 300,000 francs , does it not ? ” asked he .
For our young man had a steed which was the observed of all observers .
Ah , gentlemen , you want battle ; and you shall have it. ” “ Good God ! ” cried the hollow voice of Athos , “ I can hear D ’ Artagnan , I think. ” “ Yes , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , raising his voice in turn , “ I am here , my friend. ” “ Ah , good , then , ” replied Athos , “ we will teach them , these door breakers ! ” The gentlemen had drawn their swords , but they found themselves taken between two fires .
There was neither dining , nor playing at cards , nor dancing in that house .
The halberds were for the audience in the rear ; the muskets are for us. ” “ Thirty , forty , fifty , sixty-five men , ” said Porthos , counting the reinforcements .
However , if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website ( www.gutenberg.org ) , you must , at no additional cost , fee or expense to the user , provide a copy , a means of exporting a copy , or a means of obtaining a copy upon request , of the work in its original “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other form .
The cardinal was lavish to his underlings. ” “ Yes , yes , Guitant , ” said Mazarin ; “ Richelieu was a great man , a very great man , but he had that defect .
In vain did he see a man start from the shadow when he was halfway down—in vain did he see an arm raised as he touched the ground .
This confirmed Milady in her opinion that the abbess was rather royalist than cardinalist .
“ Who goes there ? ” cried the same voice , impatiently whilst D ’ Artagnan perceived that they had rushed to the horses ’ heads .
Some carried arms , others seemed to be taking aim , and the remainder appeared merely to be sword in hand .
Villefort looked for an instant with a gloomy expression , then , suddenly , taking it up with a nervous motion , he swallowed its contents at one draught .
Na—Ne—Ni—No—— ” “ Yes , yes , yes , ” said the old man ’ s eye .
Olivain had ready the horses of the young men , and the lackeys of the Count de Guiche guarded carefully between them the Spanish prisoner , mounted on a pony which had been bought for his use .
“ Still ? —Always !
He was a clever man .
I can no longer bear to be in possession of these secrets without the hope of seeing the victims and society generally revenged. ” Villefort cast a gloomy look around him .
The procureur then told his wife to come up .
He was , perhaps , about to regain his liberty ; at the worst , he would have a companion , and captivity that is shared is but half captivity .
“ Here I am , pursuing you remorselessly , ” he said with a benignant smile .
But , devil take him !
The horse and cabriolet were concealed behind a small ruin , where Morrel had often waited .
Two men , seated on the movable plank on which the victim is laid , were eating their breakfasts , while waiting for the criminal .
“ Monsieur Grimaud is absent from the chateau for the time being , ” said the servitor , who , little used as he was to such inquiries , began to examine Planchet from head to foot .
“ You have lived on the money he has given you. ” “ True , ” said Caderousse ; “ Benedetto has become the son of a great lord. ” “ How can he be the son of a great lord ? ” “ A natural son. ” “ And what is that great lord ’ s name ? ” “ The Count of Monte Cristo , the very same in whose house we are. ” “ Benedetto the count ’ s son ? ” replied Monte Cristo , astonished in his turn .
I am quite of your opinion , sir , and we should soon make an end of Mazarin if we had only a dozen officers like yourself , without prejudices , vigilant and incorruptible. ” “ But , ” said the officer , “ I thought you were in his service and that it was he who sent you to General Cromwell. ” “ That is to say I am in the king ’ s service , and that knowing he wanted to send some one to England , I solicited the appointment , so great was my desire to know the man of genius who now governs the three kingdoms .
The porter was in attendance ; he had been apprised by the groom of the last stage of the count ’ s approach .
Bonacieux ; the man resembled Aramis so much as to be mistaken for him .
Still the walls seemed to be closing on him ; they appeared to be in concert with his enemies .
Had not Villefort in his presence destroyed the fatal letter , the only proof against him ?
Her first look on entering the room was at Noirtier , whose face , independent of the emotion which such a scene could not fail of producing , proclaimed him to be in possession of his usual health ; her second glance was at the dying man .
“ Two horses that Monsieur de Tréville lends me at my pleasure , and with which I am now going to take a ride to St. Germain. ” “ Well , and what are you going to do at St. Germain ? ” then demanded Athos .
Danglars leaped into the carriage like a young man of twenty .
Some day , when the world is much older , and when mankind will be masters of all the destructive powers in nature , to serve for the general good of humanity ; when mankind , as you were just saying , have discovered the secrets of death , then that death will become as sweet and voluptuous as a slumber in the arms of your beloved. ” “ And if you wished to die , you would choose this death , count ? ” “ Yes. ” Morrel extended his hand .
“ You think ?
“ Yes , during the Spanish war , at Perpignan , where Fernand had left her ; she was attending to the education of her son. ” The abbé started .
A carriage had been sent to meet him , and the gigantic Porthos , who stood a head above the entire rabble , soon announced that he saw the royal equipage approaching .
There is a third , and the most terrible—that is my condition as a mortal being .
Tell us news of yourself as often as you can ; that is to say , as often as you can with safety .
At the moment she entered , the curtain of a small gallery which to that time had been closed , was drawn , and the pale face of the cardinal appeared , he being dressed as a Spanish cavalier .
Then , infusing all the humility he possessed into his eyes and voice , he addressed the inspector , and sought to inspire him with pity .
“ Monseigneur , ” said he , “ my life is yours ; henceforth dispose of it .
“ And now , your excellency , ” added he , “ allow me to repeat my apologies , and I hope you will not entertain any resentment at what has occurred. ” “ No , my dear Vampa , ” replied the count ; “ besides , you compensate for your mistakes in so gentlemanly a way , that one almost feels obliged to you for having committed them. ” 20214m “ Gentlemen , ” added the chief , turning towards the young men , “ perhaps the offer may not appear very tempting to you ; but if you should ever feel inclined to pay me a second visit , wherever I may be , you shall be welcome. ” Franz and Albert bowed .
“ A man bringing a letter from Oliver Cromwell ? ” said Mazarin .
If I wished to surprise him , it was evident this was the spot to lie in wait for him .
“ What is this ? ” said Aramis , on seeing them arrive .
“ Do you suppose that the real _savant_ addresses himself stupidly to the mere individual ?
Difficult for Kings to return to the Capitals of their Kingdoms .
without passports ? ” he murmured .
Good-morning , Emmanuel ; you will come with me then , Maximilian ? ” “ Did you doubt it ? ” said the young captain .
The opera of _Parisina_ was announced for representation , and the principal actors were Coselli , Moriani , and La Specchia .
I will then release you from all your promises—even that of procuring my admission into the Musketeers ; for before everything , I wish to avenge myself. ” “ Beware , young man ! ” cried Tréville .
“ Come , Athos ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , giving his hand to the count ; “ you are going to see something curious , ” added the Gascon .
But has one ever seen such a wild fellow , ” continued he , “ making himself a Mazarinist and helping to arrest Broussel !
“ Good-evening , sir , ” answered the soldier , in a strong provincial accent .
“ ‘ A lieutenant in the Corsican battalion. ’ “ ‘ A soldier of the usurper , then ? ’ “ ‘ A soldier of the French army. ’ “ ‘ Well , ’ replied he , ‘ he has smitten with the sword , and he has perished by the sword. ’ “ ‘ You are mistaken , monsieur , ’ I replied ; ‘ he has perished by the poniard. ’ “ ‘ What do you want me to do ? ’ asked the magistrate .
When the cardinal was out of hearing and sight , “ That Grimaud kept bad watch ! ” cried Porthos , who had a great inclination to vent his ill-humor on somebody .
He wished to have the young man at hand—not that he at all mistrusted him , but for the sake of having someone to whom he could constantly talk of the queen .
“ What shall we do ?
“ That comforts me a little. ” “ Has he wit or not—this demon D ’ Artagnan ? ” said Porthos , astonished at his friend ’ s deception .
“ Do you think it possible to rouse that as well as Provence ? ” “ Sire , I am sorry to tell your majesty a cruel fact ; but the feeling in Dauphiné is quite the reverse of that in Provence or Languedoc .
Upon this I went and complained to the governor , who replied that I only had what I deserved , and that it would teach me to insult honorable gentlemen who took up their abode in my house. ” “ So that since that time— ” replied D ’ Artagnan , totally unable to refrain from laughing at the pitiable face of the host .
“ It is not here ! ” 50197m And then he moved farther on , and began again to dig .
don ’ t you see they are trying to catch your eye ? ” Albert turned round , just in time to receive a gracious wave of the fan from the baroness ; as for Mademoiselle Eugénie , she scarcely vouchsafed to waste the glances of her large black eyes even upon the business of the stage .
“ I have induced you to take a charming promenade ; here is a delicious breakfast ; and yonder are five hundred persons , as you may see through the loopholes , taking us for heroes or madmen—two classes of imbeciles greatly resembling each other. ” “ But the secret ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
and blood , too !
“ Well ? ” asked the duke .
“ Go ; I must be alone. ” Morrel , subdued by the extraordinary ascendancy Monte Cristo exercised over everything around him , did not endeavor to resist it .
I have been bound by my promises as rigidly as any knight of olden times .
Still further , his shirt had stuck to the wound , and he had lost only a few drops of blood .
“ Yes , indeed , to you ; I succeeded in deciphering your name under the blood with which the letter was stained , ” replied Monte Cristo , amid the general outburst of amazement .
In the meantime D ’ Artagnan was defiling with his company .
I see you are a thoroughly good fellow , and will detain you no longer .
“ And the Scotch ? ” “ They kept their word and never stirred , ” said Mordaunt .
When you leave this you will behold my men at work .
“ Only remember—— ” “ On the 5th of October , Morrel , I shall expect you at the Island of Monte Cristo .
“ I think he is either a dull provincial person or a spy in search of information. ” “ And you replied to him with that notion ? ” “ Nothing warranted me to answer him otherwise ; he was polite to me and I was so to him. ” “ But if he be a spy—— ” “ What do you think a spy would be about here ?
The true nobility laughed at him , the talented repelled him , and the honorable instinctively despised him .
Now , you know nothing is more disagreeable than being disturbed when one is at breakfast .
“ My good Charles , I particularly recommend to your care Planchet , the laquais of Monsieur D ’ Artagnan .
You have succeeded ; the prince is beaten , since he can no longer fight .
they would have found—— ” “ They have not found ; but they are on the track. ” “ Yes , that the usual phrase ; I am quite familiar with it .
When I return , which will be in about an hour , you must offer him to me as a servant , and upon your recommendation , though he doesn ’ t speak a word of French , I take him into my service .
Thus , we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
This young man terrifies me , my lord ; there lies in him a sanguinary predisposition. ” “ What occupies him in England ? ” “ He is one of Cromwell ’ s most enthusiastic disciples. ” “ But what attached him to the cause ?
So that in spite of edicts , ordinances , and decrees , there he is , captain of the Musketeers ; that is to say , chief of a legion of Cæsars , whom the king holds in great esteem and whom the cardinal dreads—he who dreads nothing , as it is said .
An hour before daybreak , Cucumetto aroused his men , and gave the word to march .
“ Dear lady , ” said Mme .
‘ You will go to Marseilles , ’ said Dantès , —for you understand , I repeat his words just as he uttered them .
I had fixed the embarkation for the twenty-fourth ; but I have reflected that the more promptly the affair takes place the more sure it will be .
Franz was deeply affected .
“ And now , my dear child , adieu for the present .
Among the groups which flocked towards the family vault , Château-Renaud recognized Morrel , who had come alone in a cabriolet , and walked silently along the path bordered with yew-trees .
THE JOURNEY At two o ’ clock in the morning , our four adventurers left Paris by the Barrière St. Denis .
“ Madame , ” he said , “ I am an abbé , it is true , but I am so against my will .
D ’ Artagnan , who had his eyes fixed upon this man , became very pale , and let his glass fall .
Whilst Planchet was standing on the steps before the house he heard a voice say : “ Well , where is this gentleman and why do they not bring him here ? ” This voice , the sound of which reached D ’ Artagnan , reawakened in his heart a thousand sentiments , a thousand recollections that he had forgotten .
In one respect you are right , for I am ready to quarrel with everyone today ; but you have the first claim , M. Danglars. ” 40212m “ Sir , ” replied Danglars , pale with anger and fear , “ I warn you , when I have the misfortune to meet with a mad dog , I kill it ; and far from thinking myself guilty of a crime , I believe I do society a kindness .
A piece of biscuit and a small quantity of rum formed his supper , and he snatched a few hours ’ sleep , lying over the mouth of the cave .
Morrel disappeared down the Avenue de Marigny , and Monte Cristo hastened to join Bertuccio .
In the concierge that opened the gate the count recognized Cocles ; but as he had but one eye , and that eye had become somewhat dim in the course of nine years , Cocles did not recognize the count .
Franz and Albert were opposite the Via delle Muratte ; the coachman , without saying a word , drove up it , passed along the Piazza di Spagna and the Rospoli Palace and stopped at the door of the hotel .
He wore a vest of garnet-colored velvet , with buttons of cut gold ; a silk waistcoat covered with embroidery ; a Roman scarf tied round his neck ; a cartridge-box worked with gold , and red and green silk ; sky-blue velvet breeches , fastened above the knee with diamond buckles ; garters of deerskin , worked with a thousand arabesques , and a hat whereon hung ribbons of all colors ; two watches hung from his girdle , and a splendid poniard was in his belt .
How many men , think you , you could collect together to-night ? ” “ Two hundred muskets and five hundred halberds. ” “ Let there be only one man in every district who can do as much and by to-morrow we shall have quite a powerful army .
Each one went out by the open doors .
I will engage to say that before a week is past the door will be closed against me. ” “ You are mistaken , my dear viscount. ” “ Prove it to me. ” “ Do you wish me to do so ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , I am charged with the commission of endeavoring to induce the Comte de Morcerf to make some definite arrangement with the baron. ” “ By whom are you charged ? ” “ By the baron himself. ” “ Oh , ” said Albert with all the cajolery of which he was capable .
The two Musketeers were already there , and were playing together .
And he is in Paris ? ” continued he , addressing Raoul ; then turning to the queen : “ We may still hope .
“ Thank you , count—thank you , ” said the young man , evidently embarrassed how to begin the conversation ; “ yes , everyone in my family is well. ” “ So much the better ; yet you have something to tell me ? ” replied the count with increased anxiety .
“ But , ” said Villefort , who was the first to break the silence , “ I consider that I am the best judge of the propriety of the marriage in question .
His Musketeers proceeded and followed him .
My God , I am lost ! ” Felton remained standing , motionless and undecided .
“ No one must know this secret , my dear , but yourself .
“ My dear count , ” cried Morcerf , “ you are at fault—you , one of the most formidable logicians I know—and you must see it clearly proved that instead of being an egotist , you are a philanthropist .
And what does it amount to , after all ?
My father , who was such a brave soldier , whose career was so brilliant—— ” “ Oh , well , he will add , ‘ We are warranted in believing that this Fernand is not the illustrious Count of Morcerf , who also bears the same Christian name. ’ ” “ I am determined not to be content with anything short of an entire retractation. ” “ And you intend to make him do it in the presence of two witnesses , do you ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You do wrong. ” “ Which means , I suppose , that you refuse the service which I asked of you ? ” “ You know my theory regarding duels ; I told you my opinion on that subject , if you remember , when we were at Rome. ” “ Nevertheless , my dear count , I found you this morning engaged in an occupation but little consistent with the notions you profess to entertain. ” “ Because , my dear fellow , you understand one must never be eccentric .
People do not go out from it by the door , but by the window ; one doesn ’ t descend here by the marble steps of a peristyle , but by the branches of a lime-tree ; and the angel with a flaming sword who guards this elysium seems to have changed his celestial name of Gabriel into that of the more terrestrial one of the Prince de Marsillac. ” Aramis burst into a fit of laughter .
“ For pity , for mercy ’ s sake do not deliver me up ! ” “ It is too late , they are coming , ” said Eugénie .
D ’ Artagnan , with a sudden accession of wrath , seized the lad by the ear and led him apart , with the injunction : “ Stay you where you are and don ’ t you stir , or I will pull this ear off .
To whom ?
Both laid themselves down on the divan ; chibouques with jasmine tubes and amber mouthpieces were within reach , and all prepared so that there was no need to smoke the same pipe twice .
Wild dreams had disturbed his repose .
And the count pressed her hand in reply , as he had done eleven years before on the staircase leading to Morrel ’ s study .
“ Ah !
I told him I would attend to the prisoners in his absence .
You would like very well to be in a good ship dancing upon the waves of that emerald-green sea ; you would like very well , either on land or on the ocean , to lay for me one of those nice little ambuscades you are so skillful in planning .
“ In the commandments of God , or of the church , I don ’ t know which .
“ Do you hear how they sleep ? ” he asked .
The lady always left first , and as soon as she had stepped into her carriage , it drove away , sometimes towards the right hand , sometimes to the left ; then about twenty minutes afterwards the gentleman would also leave , buried in his cravat or concealed by his handkerchief .
Why should not the king of France have the same chance as the emperor ? ” “ Your Eminence means , I presume , the knife stab in the Rue de la Feronnerie ? ” “ Precisely , ” said the cardinal .
The cold sweat sprang forth on Dantès ’ brow .
But it is your real name I want to know , in the midst of your hundred names , that I may pronounce it when we meet to fight , at the moment when I plunge my sword through your heart. ” The Count of Monte Cristo turned dreadfully pale ; his eye seemed to burn with a devouring fire .
He visited his own dungeon .
ah ! ” exclaimed Rochefort .
Chapter XXIII .
“ If I am guilty , if I have committed the crimes you accuse me of , ” shrieked Milady , “ take me before a tribunal .
“ What a fool I was , ” said he , “ not to tear my heart out on the day when I resolved to avenge myself ! ” Chapter 90 .
Monte Cristo stopped and examined it attentively .
At your age we have faith in life ; it is the privilege of youth to believe and hope , but old men see death more clearly .
Patience , Athos !
I have let thee perish ! ” At this instant , in the midst of the silver circle illumined by the light of the moon the same whirlpool which had been made by the sinking men was again obvious , and first were seen , rising above the waves , a wisp of hair , then a pale face with open eyes , yet , nevertheless , the eyes of death ; then a body , which , after rising of itself even to the waist above the sea , turned gently on its back , according to the caprice of the waves , and floated .
Why , it is a rank of itself in France , and from the way in which you lavish money , it is a place that must be worth a hundred thousand francs a year. ” “ A hundred thousand francs !
Then , wretched creature , then you tempted God a third time .
I think he must have made an agreement with death to outlive all his heirs , and he appears likely to succeed .
‘ Well , Penelon , ’ said the captain , ‘ what makes you shake your head ? ’ ‘ Why , ’ I says , ‘ I still think you ’ ve got too much on. ’ ‘ I think you ’ re right , ’ answered he , ‘ we shall have a gale. ’ ‘ A gale ?
“ In truth , madame , do you think that can be possible ? ” “ Indeed , sir , ” said Milady , “ you must be either drunk or mad .
“ No , ” said Danglars , smiling , “ they are bonds on the bank of France , payable to bearer .
“ And you—fellows , ” resumed Mousqueton , “ stay near Monsieur le Comte d ’ Artagnan and pay him every attention in your power whilst I go to prepare my lord for his visit. ” And mounting his horse Mousqueton rode off down the avenue on the grass at a hand gallop .
“ There , monsieur , there is that letter ! ” cried the queen , with a broken and trembling voice ; “ take it , and deliver me from your odious presence. ” The chancellor , who , on his part , trembled with an emotion easily to be conceived , took the letter , bowed to the ground , and retired .
Broussel ’ s son was there , still furious , and still bearing bloody marks of his struggle with the king ’ s officers .
Swear , by your hopes of salvation , to keep her safely for the chastisement she has merited .
Paradise is at Noisy le Sec , upon the site of the archbishop ’ s chateau .
I also looked at him ; then he understood , and putting his hand into a drawer , he took from it a quantity of notes on a bank in Lyons. ” “ For a thousand pistoles ? ” “ For a thousand pistoles—just that amount , the beggar ; not one too many. ” “ And you have them ? ” “ They are here. ” “ Upon my word , I think he acted very generously. ” “ Generously !
When he had once passed the massive door covered with long square-headed nails , he fell into the midst of a troop of swordsmen , who crossed one another in their passage , calling out , quarreling , and playing tricks one with another .
‘ Eh ! ’ said he , which meant , ‘ Do you see him ? ’ ‘ Parbleu ! ’ I answered , and we perfectly understood one another .
“ But you say you do not wish to kill me ? ” “ No. ” “ And yet you will let me perish with hunger ? ” “ Ah , that is a different thing. ” “ Well , then , wretches , ” cried Danglars , “ I will defy your infamous calculations—I would rather die at once !
But he had been unable to send to Albert the following particulars , as the events had transpired after the messenger ’ s departure ; namely , that the same day a great agitation was manifest in the House of Peers among the usually calm members of that dignified assembly .
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses .
“ Ah , my child , my poor child ! ” cried the baroness , falling on her chair , and stifling her sobs in her handkerchief .
I forgot to ask you—where are you taking me ? ” “ To the cardinal. ” “ What does he want with me ? ” “ I do not know .
For a moment D ’ Artagnan thought that Parry ’ s brother had disappeared ; but he was mistaken .
But where is my old friend Winter ? ” The two gentlemen turned away their heads in silence .
But how do you mean to pass your time till I come back ?
“ Every one likes his own uniform best , my lord. ” “ Myself excepted , ” and again Mazarin smiled ; “ for you perceive that I have left off mine and put on yours. ” “ Lord bless us !
But Carlini would not quit the forest , without knowing what had become of Rita ’ s father .
forward !
Dantès examined it with intense admiration , then looked around to see the instrument with which it had been shaped so correctly into form .
They pitied the young king , who was unconsciously ruining his country , and threw all the odium of his proceedings on Mazarin .
The friends went to bed early , but neither of them slept .
Nogent-Beautin , the fool of the court , exclaimed that “ the queen was very happy to have the succor of religion at such a moment. ” This caused a universal burst of laughter .
THE AUDIENCE Chapter IV .
The man took his way toward the city .
Remain here and I will send you your clothes by the boy .
He never spoke of women .
I am brave when I set about it .
When the afternoon arrived and he felt that the hour was drawing near , he wished for solitude , his agitation was extreme ; a simple question from a friend would have irritated him .
Dantès could not understand a man risking his life for such matters .
There is no God ; there is no Providence—all comes by chance. ” “ There is a Providence ; there is a God , ” said Monte Cristo , “ of whom you are a striking proof , as you lie in utter despair , denying him , while I stand before you , rich , happy , safe and entreating that God in whom you endeavor not to believe , while in your heart you still believe in him. ” “ But who are you , then ? ” asked Caderousse , fixing his dying eyes on the count .
Villefort violently unbuttoned his greatcoat , which seemed to strangle him , and passing his livid hand across his forehead , entered his study .
“ I thought I did , ” replied Athos ; “ but no doubt I was mistaken. ” And he returned D ’ Artagnan the ring without , however , ceasing to look at it .
Whilst we thought you indifferent to our sorrows , which you couldn ’ t share without crime , you alone among us have discovered what we were searching for in vain .
“ Excellency , ” said Pastrini , “ I am delighted to have your approbation , but it was not for that I came. ” “ Did you come to tell us you have procured a carriage ? ” asked Albert , lighting his cigar .
This solitary place was precisely suited to the requirements of a man desirous of burying treasure .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” repeated Louis ; “ very well , madame. ” At this moment they were startled by a noise as if a tumult were approaching .
“ What ; is it news to you ?
My fortune , though small , is free and unfettered , and the memory of my late father is respected in our country , Valentine , as that of the most upright and honorable merchant of the city ; I say our country , because you were born not far from Marseilles. ” “ Don ’ t speak of Marseilles , I beg of you , Maximilian ; that one word brings back my mother to my recollection—my angel mother , who died too soon for myself and all who knew her ; but who , after watching over her child during the brief period allotted to her in this world , now , I fondly hope , watches from her home in heaven .
Thus he never failed to pay his diurnal court to her ; and the self-satisfied Gascon was convinced that sooner or later she could not fail to respond .
“ What chance brings you here , gentlemen ? ” said Château-Renaud , shaking hands with each of them .
First , here is the letter .
“ There can be no doubt we would all be broken on the wheel ; but for God ’ s sake , do not forget , as you yourself said , Athos , that we only write to him concerning a family affair ; that we only write to him to entreat that as soon as Milady arrives in London he will put it out of her power to injure us .
“ Oho ! ” said they , “ not in bed at a quarter past eleven .
They were hungry , and the smell of the roasted kid was very savory , and your tars are not very ceremonious .
Do not seek to know how I discovered it ; I know it—that is sufficient .
Albert ran to fetch a carriage .
“ Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan to his domestic , who just then insinuated his head through the half-open door in order to catch some fragments of the conversation , “ go down to my landlord , Monsieur Bonacieux , and ask him to send me half a dozen bottles of Beaugency wine ; I prefer that. ” “ Ah , ah !
“ Listen , ” he said ; “ today is the 5th of September , is it not ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Today , then , at eleven o ’ clock , your father has nearly three hundred thousand francs to pay ? ” “ Yes , we know that. ” “ Well , then , ” continued Emmanuel , “ we have not fifteen thousand francs in the house. ” “ What will happen then ? ” “ Why , if today before eleven o ’ clock your father has not found someone who will come to his aid , he will be compelled at twelve o ’ clock to declare himself a bankrupt. ” “ Oh , come , then , come ! ” cried she , hastening away with the young man .
“ ‘ Wretch ! ’ returned the old man , ‘ what hast thou done ? ’ and he gazed with terror on Rita , pale and bloody , a knife buried in her bosom .
Franz read it twice before he could comprehend what it contained .
“ Monsieur the coadjutor ’ s carriage ! ” she exclaimed , falling back .
It was a horrible thing at that period to be imprisoned by the enmity of the king .
Upon this promise D ’ Artagnan withdrew , and the next day he began service .
“ I swear to you by him who died for us that naught shall induce me to breathe one syllable to my jailers ; but I conjure you do not abandon me .
The young man heard these words and bent so forward over the rock that one might have supposed he was about to precipitate himself from it .
Long swords but light purses .
During this time , Madame Morrel had told her son everything .
The sea , smooth as crystal , was now and then disturbed by the leaping of fish , which were pursued by some unseen enemy and sought for safety in another element ; while on the extreme verge of the horizon might be seen the fishermen ’ s boats , white and graceful as the sea-gull , or the merchant vessels bound for Corsica or Spain .
The lamp went out for want of oil , but she paid no heed to the darkness , and dawn came , but she knew not that it was day .
“ First , my lord ? ” inquired Grimaud .
His forehead was marked with the line that indicates the constant presence of bitter thoughts ; he had the fiery eyes that seem to penetrate to the very soul , and the haughty and disdainful upper lip that gives to the words it utters a peculiar character that impresses them on the minds of those to whom they are addressed .
“ Morcerf ! ” repeated Debray .
A man was hidden in Lafitte ’ s banking-house , behind one of the little arched windows which are placed above each desk ; he saw Mercédès enter the diligence , and he also saw Albert withdraw .
Then he explained to him the cause of his visit , and the service he required of him .
Do not fear ; _pardieu ! _ we are alone. ” “ I think I have discovered my father. ” “ Your true father ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Not old Cavalcanti ? ” “ No , for he has gone again ; the true one , as you say. ” “ And that father is—— ” “ Well , Caderousse , it is Monte Cristo. ” “ Bah ! ” “ Yes , you understand , that explains all .
D ’ ARTAGNAN AND THE ENGLISHMAN D ’ Artagnan followed Milady without being perceived by her .
He rose on the waves , making signs of distress ; but no one on board saw him , and the vessel stood on another tack .
“ Deuce take it ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , more moved than he had been for a long time , “ don ’ t despair , my friend , if you have not received any letters from the count , we have received one. ” “ Oh , really ! ” cried Raoul .
Poor Concino Concini !
Anne , reclining in a large easy-chair , her head supported by her hand , her elbow resting on a table , was looking at her son , who was turning over the leaves of a large book filled with pictures .
“ Yes , the priest. ” “ Oh , I inquired after him for the purpose of hanging him likewise ; but he was beforehand with me , he had quit the curacy the night before. ” “ Was it ever known who this miserable fellow was ? ” “ He was doubtless the first lover and accomplice of the fair lady .
He had at once declared for a military life , and had in consequence studied hard , passed brilliantly through the Polytechnic School , and left it as sub-lieutenant of the 53rd of the line .
What word , then , can be found to describe the days which they occupy in descending ?
Nothing had as yet occurred to shake Cocles ’ belief ; the last month ’ s payment had been made with the most scrupulous exactitude ; Cocles had detected an overbalance of fourteen sous in his cash , and the same evening he had brought them to M. Morrel , who , with a melancholy smile , threw them into an almost empty drawer , saying : “ Thanks , Cocles ; you are the pearl of cashiers. ” Cocles went away perfectly happy , for this eulogium of M. Morrel , himself the pearl of the honest men of Marseilles , flattered him more than a present of fifty crowns .
Athos , who had been observing him and guessing his thoughts , took his arm and led him into the garden .
Truly , a Byronic hero !
“ But come , what is this about ? ” asked Porthos .
The sword of the eternal is too heavy for my arm .
“ General , ” said the president , “ we acknowledge no King Louis XVIII. , or an ex-emperor , but his majesty the emperor and king , driven from France , which is his kingdom , by violence and treason. ” “ ‘ “ Excuse me , gentlemen , ” said the general ; “ you may not acknowledge Louis XVIII. , but I do , as he has made me a baron and a field-marshal , and I shall never forget that for these two titles I am indebted to his happy return to France. ” “ ‘ “ Sir , ” said the president , rising with gravity , “ be careful what you say ; your words clearly show us that they are deceived concerning you in the Island of Elba , and have deceived us !
We have seen that on the first rumor which reached the salon he had gradually approached the door , and crossing two or three rooms at last disappeared .
Tell me his name , and I will put it in the place of the name of Charlotte Backson .
He thought of his wife .
“ I buy those horses , ” he said to the groom .
The travelers had chosen crossroads in the hope that they might meet with less interruption ; but at Crèvecœur , Aramis declared he could proceed no farther .
Let them know , on the contrary , that their punishment , which had been decreed by Providence , is only delayed by my present determination , and although they escape it in this world , it awaits them in another , and that they are only exchanging time for eternity. ” While he was thus agitated by gloomy uncertainties , —wretched waking dreams of grief , —the first rays of morning pierced his windows , and shone upon the pale blue paper on which he had just inscribed his justification of Providence .
Dantès raised his head and saw Faria ’ s eyes injected with blood .
The more we have ventured the more we gain , when we know how to wait. ” “ Yes ; but to wait surrounded by assassins and poisoners. ” “ Bah ! ” said Athos .
this is torture to me , ” cried Athos .
Anne of Austria had never appeared more brilliant than on that day—radiant with grace and wit .
He fixed his eyes upon D ’ Artagnan even more earnestly than before .
The Abbé Scarron .
It was a superb moonlight night .
Chapter XL .
He forgot that besides his friends of his own sex , a woman , strange to say , had remembered him .
M. de Villefort answered nothing , but sat , or rather threw himself down again upon his chair .
This was the room appropriated to the sailors .
Of course you stopped at your father ’ s ? ” A feeling of faintness came over Villefort .
Will you examine them. ” “ Oh , M. Beauchamp , if you assure me that M. de Morcerf does not know these pistols , you may readily believe that your word will be quite sufficient. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said Château-Renaud , “ it is not Morcerf coming in that carriage ; —faith , it is Franz and Debray ! ” The two young men he announced were indeed approaching .
My kingdom is bounded only by the world , for I am not an Italian , or a Frenchman , or a Hindu , or an American , or a Spaniard—I am a cosmopolite .
Gentlemen and citizens , set me free ; I shall go to the Louvre and strangle Mazarin .
“ Sire , ” said Winter , who in this trying emergency felt all his strength and energy fire up , “ we are ready. ” The king looked at the three gentlemen .
Some of the inmates of the “ Lions ’ Den ” were watching the operations of the prisoner ’ s toilet with considerable interest .
This way !
“ No ; what I say , ” replied Bonacieux , “ is only that I may know whether I am delaying you. ” “ Why that question , my dear host ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Her head hung back , and her long hair swept the ground .
As soon as the earnest money was paid , D ’ Artagnan took possession of his lodging , and passed the remainder of the day in sewing onto his doublet and hose some ornamental braiding which his mother had taken off an almost-new doublet of the elder M. d ’ Artagnan , and which she had given her son secretly .
The pickaxe struck for a moment with a dull sound that drew out of Dantès ’ forehead large drops of perspiration .
At that moment a man appeared in the doorway , almost as pale as those in the chamber .
Since daybreak La Ramee had been occupied with the preparations , and trusting no one but himself , he had visited personally the successor of Pere Marteau .
And who ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan and his friends. ” “ Indeed , they will go so far that we shall be obliged to send them to the Bastille. ” “ Why is it not done already ? ” “ What would you ?
They carried him through an alley , up a flight of stairs , and deposited him in an antechamber .
“ Your pardon , sir , ” said Milady , with mildness .
“ Here we are ! ” said Athos .
Hallo , Fernand !
My wish was not to confine myself to domestic cares , or the caprices of any man , but to be an artist , and consequently free in heart , in person , and in thought. ” Eugénie pronounced these words with so firm a tone that the color mounted to Valentine ’ s cheeks .
But do you wish to marry Andrea , my dear M. Danglars , that you are asking so many questions ? ” “ _Ma foi_ , ” said Danglars , “ it would not be a bad speculation , I fancy , and you know I am a speculator. ” “ You are not thinking of Mademoiselle Danglars , I hope ; you would not like poor Andrea to have his throat cut by Albert ? ” “ Albert , ” repeated Danglars , shrugging his shoulders ; “ ah , well ; he would care very little about it , I think. ” “ But he is betrothed to your daughter , I believe ? ” “ Well , M. de Morcerf and I have talked about this marriage , but Madame de Morcerf and Albert—— ” “ You do not mean to say that it would not be a good match ? ” “ Indeed , I imagine that Mademoiselle Danglars is as good as M. de Morcerf. ” “ Mademoiselle Danglars ’ fortune will be great , no doubt , especially if the telegraph should not make any more mistakes. ” “ Oh , I do not mean her fortune only ; but tell me—— ” “ What ? ” “ Why did you not invite M. and Madame de Morcerf to your dinner ? ” “ I did so , but he excused himself on account of Madame de Morcerf being obliged to go to Dieppe for the benefit of sea air. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said Danglars , laughing , “ it would do her a great deal of good. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because it is the air she always breathed in her youth. ” Monte Cristo took no notice of this ill-natured remark .
“ Young man , ” said he to D ’ Artagnan , “ a suggestion. ” “ What ? ” “ You may get into trouble by what has taken place. ” “ You believe so ? ” “ Yes .
But should you find the means of retaining them , remember , my lord , that I shall esteem you as having rendered the greatest service that a gentleman can render to a queen ; and in the day of my prosperity he who brings me this order and this cross shall be blessed by me and my children. ” “ Madame , ” replied De Winter , “ your majesty will be served by a man devoted to you .
“ I see that I shall not only go alone to the Duke of Bracciano ’ s , but also return to Florence alone. ” “ If my unknown be as amiable as she is beautiful , ” said Albert , “ I shall fix myself at Rome for six weeks , at least .
I predict from all this an avalanche of dinners and routs .
“ Well , Signor Pastrini , ” said Franz , “ now that my companion is quieted , and you have seen how peaceful my intentions are , tell me who is this Luigi Vampa .
Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and can not survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment .
Then he took the glass , emptied three parts of the contents in the fireplace , that it might be supposed Valentine had taken it , and replaced it on the table ; then he disappeared , after throwing a farewell glance on Valentine , who slept with the confidence and innocence of an angel at the feet of the Lord .
Chapter XLV .
“ Well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ one is never killed in a first engagement. ” “ Nor in the second , ” said Aramis “ Nor in the third , ” returned Porthos ; “ and even when one is killed , one rises again , the proof of which is , that here we are ! ” “ No , ” said Athos , “ it is not Raoul about whom I am anxious , for I trust he will conduct himself like a gentleman ; and if he is killed—well , he will die bravely ; but hold—should such a misfortune happen—well— ” Athos passed his hand across his pale brow .
The white steam was ascending like a plume of feathers from the black chimney .
I read the advertisement in one of the papers , and was tempted by the false title , ‘ a country house. ’ ” “ It is not yet too late , ” cried Bertuccio , eagerly ; “ and if your excellency will intrust me with the commission , I will find you a better at Enghien , at Fontenay-aux-Roses , or at Bellevue. ” “ Oh , no , ” returned Monte Cristo negligently ; “ since I have this , I will keep it. ” “ And you are quite right , ” said the notary , who feared to lose his fee .
“ I have one , the seal of which I am not to break till I reach London ; but since you tell me to whom it is addressed , ’ tis useless to wait till then. ” D ’ Artagnan tore open the envelope of the letter .
“ _Diable ! _ ” he said , after having swallowed the divine preserve .
Speak not of it , reverend sir .
Certainly , in the eyes of an artist , the exact and strict costume of Teresa had a very different character from that of Carmela and her companions ; and Teresa was frivolous and coquettish , and thus the embroidery and muslins , the cashmere waist-girdles , all dazzled her , and the reflection of sapphires and diamonds almost turned her giddy brain .
He went to the coadjutor to consult with him whether it would not be better to send word to the duke to stop on the road , but Gondy reflected for a moment , and then said : “ Let him continue his journey. ” “ All is not then over ? ” asked Rochefort .
But the devil does not suffer himself to be easily dispossessed from a place in which he has fixed his garrison .
Thus , sure that the rider would not release his hold , Raoul now only directed his attention to the horse , which he guided to the opposite bank , helping it to cut through the water and encouraging it with words .
The poor young woman was too pure to suppose that any female could be guilty of such perfidy ; besides , the name of the Comtesse de Winter , which she had heard the abbess pronounce , was wholly unknown to her , and she was even ignorant that a woman had had so great and so fatal a share in the misfortune of her life .
He found his carriage at the door , and doing his utmost to restrain his anger he went at once to find Beauchamp , who was in his office .
They were approaching the scene of war ; and as bands of Spaniards sometimes took advantage of the night to make expeditions even as far as the neighborhood of Arras , they determined to remain in the town until the morrow .
“ You have not guessed rightly .
In the surrounding plain , which more resembled a dusty lake than solid ground , were scattered a few miserable stalks of wheat , the effect , no doubt , of a curious desire on the part of the agriculturists of the country to see whether such a thing as the raising of grain in those parched regions was practicable .
In one case or the other , the trial was soon over .
“ Alas , ” said Andrea , sighing , “ one can not be completely happy in this world ! ” Chapter 65 .
“ If we release the prisoner thus , we shall never know the truth. ” “ Athos may always be found , ” replied Tréville , “ ready to answer , when it shall please the gownsmen to interrogate him .
Can it be otherwise ?
Someone is coming !
You have an excellent memory , Milady. ” “ But , ” resumed she to whom the cardinal addressed this flattering compliment , “ if , in spite of all these reasons , the duke does not give way and continues to menace France ? ” “ The duke is in love to madness , or rather to folly , ” replied Richelieu , with great bitterness .
He was incessantly attacked by them , and the superior , to whom he had confided this misfortune , wishing as much as in him lay to free him from them , had advised him , in order to conjure away the tempting demon , to have recourse to the bell rope , and ring with all his might .
Ah !
“ Your majesty is well aware that there is a truce between us and the English army. ” “ And if there is a truce the English army has broken it by quitting the town , contrary to the agreement which kept it there .
They fetch a doctor , who opens the dead body , and collects from the entrails and stomach a quantity of arsenic in a spoon .
“ Madame will be tired tonight , ” continued Monte Cristo , “ and will , no doubt , wish to rest .
“ He kept his word .
All three then cried : “ All ’ s over. ” “ Hush ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ An old acquaintance , ” replied Grimaud .
Grimaud was about to reply to excuse himself .
“ You have , indeed , a noble nature , Edmond , and I see by your paleness and agitation what is passing in your heart at this moment .
“ It is extraordinary , ” he said , when the door was closed behind him , “ how easily these husbands , whom we ridicule , gain an advantage over us. ” 30241m Lucien having left , Danglars took his place on the sofa , closed the open book , and placing himself in a dreadfully dictatorial attitude , he began playing with the dog ; but the animal , not liking him as well as Debray , and attempting to bite him , Danglars seized him by the skin of his neck and threw him upon a couch on the other side of the room .
The door opened so quietly that the thief heard no sound ; but , to his astonishment , the room was suddenly illuminated .
The cries which the police officer repeated twenty times : “ In the king ’ s name , ” were powerless against this formidable multitude—seemed , on the contrary , to exasperate it still more ; when , at the shout , “ In the name of the king , ” an officer ran up , and seeing the uniforms ill-treated , he sprang into the scuffle sword in hand , and brought unexpected help to the guards .
D ’ Artagnan , who was known as a familiar of the house , went straight to his office , and sent word that he wished to see him on something of importance .
The care with which Ali placed this cup on the table roused Franz ’ s curiosity .
He could no longer cherish any doubt that the cardinal had been carried off by the three prisoners , since the prisoners had disappeared at the same time ; and he had hastened to Saint Germain to warn the queen of that disappearance .
But then , young man ( and I pray of you to give me your full attention ) , then I thought I could not be doing anything displeasing to the Almighty in trying to set an innocent being at liberty—one who had committed no offence , and merited not condemnation. ” “ And have your notions changed ? ” asked Dantès with much surprise ; “ do you think yourself more guilty in making the attempt since you have encountered me ? ” “ No ; neither do I wish to incur guilt .
Let us return to your apartment .
But the soil was moist ; on reaching the top of the bank , she slipped and fell upon her knees .
Raoul has no fortune other than I possess , poor child !
You will accomplish what I was to have done , and derive all the honor and profit from it. ’ “ ‘ I will do it , captain ; but perhaps I shall not be admitted to the grand-marshal ’ s presence as easily as you expect ? ’ “ ‘ Here is a ring that will obtain audience of him , and remove every difficulty , ’ said the captain .
Is it not some bad affair ? ” “ You are mistaken , Planchet , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ and as a proof , there is a crown to drink my health. ” “ I am much obliged to Monsieur for the crown he has given me , and I promise him to follow his instructions exactly ; but it is not the less true that letters which come in this way into shut-up houses— ” “ Fall from heaven , my friend , fall from heaven. ” “ Then Monsieur is satisfied ? ” asked Planchet .
I fear that she has badly sprained her ankle. ” “ Oh , heavens ! ” cried Athos .
who would ever have thought it ? ” D ’ Artagnan only sighed .
You have assassinated a woman , then ? ” cried the monk .
“ Will they never bring that emetic ? ” asked the doctor .
Now I can promise you , that a Frenchman might show himself in public , either in Tunis , Constantinople , Bagdad , or Cairo , without being treated in that way. ” “ That shows that the Eastern nations have too much good sense to waste their time and attention on objects undeserving of either .
There may be an ambuscade concealed in this wood. ” “ Did you see nothing there ? ” asked the count .
Almost directly afterwards , without the usual interval of time , a cab arrived , and the veiled lady ran hastily upstairs .
I had the money with me ; I made the tenant sign the deed of resilition , and when I had obtained what I so much wanted , I galloped to Auteuil .
“ Ah !
Chapter XXXVIII .
At last they lost sight of each other .
“ Well , sir , ” said the young girl , “ do you understand now , and is your conscience perfectly at rest on the subject ? ” But before the notary could answer , Villefort had drawn him aside .
I say you understand this , because you are as conversant with my affairs as I am ; indeed , I think you understand them better , since I am ignorant of what has become of a considerable portion of my fortune , once very tolerable , while I am sure , madame , that you know perfectly well .
We also informed Monsieur Porthos of what was going on ; but he told us we were scoundrels to doubt a gentleman ’ s word , and that as he had said the horse was his , it must be so. ” “ That ’ s Porthos all over , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan .
“ Let us put down 120 , ” added Albert , smiling .
The coadjutor , whose eyes devoured her slightest movements , seized the paper immediately the signature had been affixed to it , returned to the window and waved it in his hand .
I see you are covered with blood ! ” “ I believe , ” said Raoul , “ that I have got something like a scratch on the arm .
He therefore seized the little epistle , and opened it eagerly .
Perhaps he had come to tell Captain Gaumard of his good luck , and to offer him employment from his new master .
When my father conspired , it was not for the emperor , it was against the Bourbons ; for M. Noirtier possessed this peculiarity , he never projected any Utopian schemes which could never be realized , but strove for possibilities , and he applied to the realization of these possibilities the terrible theories of The Mountain , —theories that never shrank from any means that were deemed necessary to bring about the desired result. ” “ Well , ” said Monte Cristo , “ it is just as I thought ; it was politics which brought Noirtier and M. d ’ Épinay into personal contact .
As they went from the Hôtel des Gardes , they separated , leaving the street at opposite ends , one having to quit Paris by the Barrière de la Villette and the other by the Barrière Montmartre , to meet again beyond St. Denis—a strategic maneuver which , having been executed with equal punctuality , was crowned with the most fortunate results .
Monte Cristo pressed on that pure beautiful forehead a kiss which made two hearts throb at once , the one violently , the other secretly .
Now , then , to play another master-stroke , by which I shall gain the heart of both husband and wife—delightful !
Come now , what are you telling me ? ” “ Fortunately , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is in our hands , and you shall be confronted with him. ” “ By my faith , I ask no better , ” cried Bonacieux ; “ I shall not be sorry to see the face of an acquaintance. ” “ Bring in the Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the commissary to the guards .
“ You are too noble not to understand me , and you understand me so well that you already yield , dear Maximilian .
“ My father ! ” cried the young girl , out of breath , and half dead with joy— “ saved , you are saved ! ” And she threw herself into his arms , holding in her extended hand a red , netted silk purse .
Athos cast a cold and indifferent glance upon the objects we have described , and at the invitation of him whom he came to seek sat down near him .
For a time the delightful remembrance of Madame Bonancieux left on his character a certain poetic tinge , perishable indeed ; for like all other recollections in this world , these impressions were , by degrees , effaced .
“ Two months , ” said he .
I therefore may hesitate between you .
“ He passes for a very charitable man .
He spoke upon all subjects except the sciences , alleging in this respect the inveterate hatred he had borne to scholars from his childhood .
She is called the fair Indian. ” “ Excuse me , sir , ” returned Raoul , blushing still more deeply , “ I know no more than I did before .
But Mazarin is a low-born rogue , who can at the most take us by the collar , like an archer .
I have then about fifty pistoles .
“ You have not forgotten St. Gervais , Athos , and the napkin which was converted into a banner ? ” and he then related to Raoul the story of the bastion , and Raoul fancied he was listening to one of those deeds of arms belonging to days of chivalry , so gloriously recounted by Tasso and Ariosto .
Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms from this work , or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™ .
Acting by my advice , my poor sister had refused to comply with the unreasonable demands of Benedetto , who was continually tormenting her for money , as long as he believed there was a sou left in her possession .
They had not looked carefully enough for their lost friends .
There , seated before a walnut table he had brought with him from Hartwell , and to which , from one of those fancies not uncommon to great people , he was particularly attached , the king , Louis XVIII. , was carelessly listening to a man of fifty or fifty-two years of age , with gray hair , aristocratic bearing , and exceedingly gentlemanly attire , and meanwhile making a marginal note in a volume of Gryphius ’ s rather inaccurate , but much sought-after , edition of Horace—a work which was much indebted to the sagacious observations of the philosophical monarch .
She spoke some words to Lord de Winter in English , who thereupon requested D ’ Artagnan ’ s permission to retire , excusing himself on account of the urgency of the business that had called him away , and charging his sister to obtain his pardon .
However , he remained standing , clinging to a window .
Then the pope and Cæsar Borgia invited the two cardinals to dinner .
“ I say I am entirely of Porthos ’ s opinion , ” replied Aramis .
Albert had fastened the faded bunch of violets to his button-hole .
I would lay a wager he has stolen it. ” “ Do you think so ? ” answered D ’ Artagnan , but little convinced , as he knew better than anyone else how entirely personal the value of this letter was , and saw nothing in it likely to tempt cupidity .
“ What do you want of me ? ” he asked .
“ Forsooth , I don ’ t know. ” “ Half a pistole if you can find out , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Why , it is with him I am also going to fight , ” said Porthos .
As he approached , Carlini raised his head , and the forms of two persons became visible to the old man ’ s eyes .
Be so good as to show us the way and we will follow you. ” Mazarin was by degrees recovering his senses .
“ The sun is not shining , ” said Morrel , more alarmed by Noirtier ’ s expression than by Valentine ’ s indisposition .
But like the miser in the fable , he could not sleep for thinking of his treasure .
La Ramee followed all these objects with his eyes , his alarm every moment increasing .
“ What is the matter , madame ? ” said Mazarin , uneasily .
But immediately through this opening twenty more shots were fired , and the flame , rushing up like fire from the crater of a volcano , soon reached the tapestry , which it quickly devoured .
We have just time to finish this fowl and to drink one glass of wine to your health , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ To your health ! ” repeated Porthos and Aramis .
He was not the less intoxicated with joy , electrified by love .
They resumed their route .
The next morning he saw Albert pass and repass , holding an enormous bouquet , which he doubtless meant to make the bearer of his amorous epistle .
A ray of light all at once broke upon the mind of the host as he was giving himself to the devil upon finding nothing .
“ It is for that reason I am delighted to see you , ” continued the abbé , “ although you have disturbed me in a most important calculation , which , if it succeeded , would possibly change Newton ’ s system .
“ Come , Grimaud , order dinner for yourself and when you have rested a little we can talk. ” “ No , sir , no , ” said Grimaud .
Chapter LX .
The Meeting After Mercédès had left Monte Cristo , he fell into profound gloom .
He fell back cursing with rage .
the king ?
Their three graves were there , rising above the ground , and a fourth was also there , yawning for its ghastly tenant .
She loved Villefort , and he left her at the moment he was about to become her husband .
The district doctor approached with the indifference of a man accustomed to spend half his time amongst the dead ; he then lifted the sheet which was placed over the face , and just unclosed the lips .
de Villefort , ” he said , “ will you conduct the Baroness Danglars ? ” Villefort complied , and they passed on to the dining-room .
The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian Chapter 38 .
“ Younger sons , ” he said , “ who enlisted in the musketeers under feigned names in order not to lower their family names .
for Master Broussel , who is arrested because he has defended the people !
When I was at Rogliano everything went on properly , but no sooner was my back turned than Benedetto became master , and everything went ill .
Eugénie , apparently calm , although in all probability her heart beat somewhat faster than usual , went out in her turn .
It appeared likewise that Mme .
He was , as this remark shows , a man full of philanthropy , and in every way fit for his office .
Soon after she heard lighter steps than those of the sentinel , which came from the end of the corridor and stopped before her door .
It is to pass the Carnival at Venice ; there we are sure of obtaining gondolas if we can not have carriages. ” “ Ah , the devil , no , ” cried Albert ; “ I came to Rome to see the Carnival , and I will , though I see it on stilts. ” “ Bravo !
“ How could this ring come into the hands of Milady Clarik ?
“ From His Eminence , Cardinal Mazarin , ” presenting a letter .
I found him much preoccupied with an event that he could not at all comprehend .
But is he really a prince ? ” “ I will not answer for it , ” said Monte Cristo .
This dinner consisted of meats nicely dressed , choice wines , and superb fruit .
Planchet went in search of the postillion who had driven her , and found him .
It became necessary , therefore , to destroy this last bulwark of Calvinism—a dangerous leaven with which the ferments of civil revolt and foreign war were constantly mingling .
I know that I suffer , that ’ s all .
I know a clever person at Tours— ” Aramis stopped on seeing Athos smile .
They saw no one , and the bastion seemed abandoned .
The count , dismissing his carriage , followed him about a hundred paces behind .
“ He wills that human vengeance should precede celestial justice. ” “ Men fear him and spare him. ” “ I , ” said Felton , “ I do not fear him , nor will I spare him. ” The soul of Milady was bathed in an infernal joy .
My friend placed a bottle at the distance of thirty paces , and at each cast he caught the neck of the bottle in his running noose .
You mentioned a fowl , I think ? ” “ Yes , a fowl. ” Peppino , turning around , shouted , “ A fowl for his excellency ! ” His voice yet echoed in the archway when a handsome , graceful , and half-naked young man appeared , bearing a fowl in a silver dish on his head , without the assistance of his hands .
For some temperaments work is a remedy for all afflictions .
Valentine then took the dictionary , and the notary watched her while she turned over the pages .
At length one evening , as the jailer was visiting him for the last time that night , Dantès , with his ear for the hundredth time at the wall , fancied he heard an almost imperceptible movement among the stones .
I hid myself in the one nearest to the path Villefort must take , and scarcely was I there when , amidst the gusts of wind , I fancied I heard groans ; but you know , or rather you do not know , your excellency , that he who is about to commit an assassination fancies that he hears low cries perpetually ringing in his ears .
I should never have taken him for anything more than a mere major. ” “ And you would have flattered him , for certainly , as you say , he has no manner .
She made her interlocutor observe the corner of this unfolded object .
He endeavored to cheer him up in his solitude .
“ What can I do for the son ?
“ What are you thinking of ? ” asked the abbé smilingly , imputing the deep abstraction in which his visitor was plunged to the excess of his awe and wonder .
Then , you can let me have some money , can you not ? ” “ Whatever you say , my dear count ; I am at your orders. ” “ Why , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ since we mutually understand each other—for such I presume is the case ? ” Danglars bowed assentingly .
You have hastened to me—can I have the happiness of being useful to you ? ” 40286m “ Yes , I need your help : that is I thought like a madman that you could lend me your assistance in a case where God alone can succor me. ” “ Tell me what it is , ” replied Monte Cristo .
He went straight to the queen , and in an altered voice said , “ Why , madame , have you not thought proper to wear your diamond studs , when you know it would give me so much gratification ? ” The queen cast a glance around her , and saw the cardinal behind , with a diabolical smile on his countenance .
Personally , I am on bad terms with him , on account of the quarrels between Madame de Montbazon , my mother-in-law , and Madame de Longueville .
There ensued a brief silence , during which these two persons , who at first sight recognized each other so clearly as of noble race , examined each other without embarrassment on either side .
De Chavigny , who , according to report , was a son of Richelieu ’ s , and had been a creature of the late cardinal ’ s , understood tyranny .
“ Those born to wealth , and who have the means of gratifying every wish , ” said Emmanuel , “ know not what is the real happiness of life , just as those who have been tossed on the stormy waters of the ocean on a few frail planks can alone realize the blessings of fair weather. ” Monte Cristo rose , and without making any answer ( for the tremulousness of his voice would have betrayed his emotion ) walked up and down the apartment with a slow step .
Otherwise , his head was perfectly clear , and his body refreshed ; he was free from the slightest headache ; on the contrary , he felt a certain degree of lightness , a faculty for absorbing the pure air , and enjoying the bright sunshine more vividly than ever .
She cast a glance at the door ; the baron had had a plank nailed over the grating .
My love , my blood , my life !
Wait till he is set out and then , marry , come up , ask , and find out .
She saw me also and in trying to jump from the end of a pile of wood on which she had mounted , the poor child fell and was not able to rise again .
in our position , one must provide for everything ) , I shall try to gain the coast of France .
But it was not you , I presume , who placed at my disposal 100,000 francs , which I spent in four or five months ; it was not you who manufactured an Italian gentleman for my father ; it was not you who introduced me into the world , and had me invited to a certain dinner at Auteuil , which I fancy I am eating at this moment , in company with the most distinguished people in Paris—amongst the rest with a certain procureur , whose acquaintance I did very wrong not to cultivate , for he would have been very useful to me just now ; —it was not you , in fact , who bailed me for one or two millions , when the fatal discovery of my little secret took place .
I love my sister Julie , —I love her husband Emmanuel ; but I require a strong mind to smile on my last moments .
Aramis mumbled verses to himself , and Porthos from time to time pulled a hair or two from his mustache , in sign of despair .
I was about to give it when you anticipated me. ” “ That , then , is your opinion ? ” asked Aramis .
He entered the hostelry with his hat pulled over his eyes , his left hand on the pommel of the sword , and cracking his whip with his right hand .
“ In the name of heaven , sir , ” cried she , “ what means all that is passing ?
“ Were you stopped ? ” eagerly inquired the two youths .
The latter had surpassed himself ; he showed La Ramee a monstrous pate , ornamented with Monsieur de Beaufort ’ s coat-of-arms .
“ Listen .
Thus Louis XIII .
Fernand went , and Mercédès remained alone .
May God accept my atonement in the preservation of these two existences ! ” Valentine seized the count ’ s hand , and in her irresistible impulse of joy carried it to her lips .
you , who are a perfect being , bid spirit triumph over body .
That ’ s my masterpiece .
As we have seen , therefore , he permitted his former host to retire without attempting a recognition , but fully promising himself a rich indemnity for his present forbearance should chance afford him another opportunity .
D ’ Artagnan asked some questions about this prolonged melancholy .
The steamer soon disappeared , and in an hour afterwards , as the count had said , was scarcely distinguishable in the horizon amidst the fogs of the night .
The host will tell you I have three or four more , so that you will not inconvenience me in any way .
Dantès went and cut the strongest olive-tree he could find , stripped off its branches , inserted it in the hole , and used it as a lever .
“ My son ! ” exclaimed Athos , extending his hand to D ’ Artagnan .
“ Five hundred pistoles. ” “ That is to say , two hundred more—a hundred pistoles for you and a hundred pistoles for me .
friends !
“ Come in , my lord , ” said Philip in a low tone , “ and I will show you something droll. ” Morcerf entered , and in place of the usual target , he saw some playing-cards fixed against the wall .
So that I have no society ; I live alone ; I am sick of it—my mind preys on itself. ” D ’ Artagnan smiled .
You held her hand—you were feeling her pulse—and the second fit came on before you had turned towards me .
The musketeers trotted up , and at the same time the ten men whom D ’ Artagnan had given to Comminges appeared .
So we followed him through the lowest streets in the city , and in half an hour ’ s time he stopped before a little isolated house .
Let us unfold them first , and then pass on to the private plans which perhaps had not less influence upon his Eminence than the others .
Then he took Milady in his arms , and set off briskly in the direction opposite to that which the patrol had taken .
Monte Cristo on the contrary , preserved a graceful suavity of demeanor , aided by a certain degree of simplicity he could assume at pleasure , and thus possessed the advantage .
Meantime , he was going to try to find out Milady .
The evidence will support it .
“ The woman whom you and your masters commanded me to kill—— ” “ Milady ? ” “ Yes , Milady ; it is true you called her thus. ” “ What has the monk to do with this Milady ? ” “ She was his mother. ” Grimaud trembled and stared at the dying man in a dull and leaden manner .
The two guards who had remained in the lane mounted to the aid of Comminges ; those who were in the chariot opened the doors and presented arms .
you ’ ve missed me , ” cried Aramis , “ but I swear to Heaven !
The woman followed him , and Lord de Winter did not appear .
They never buried the dead ; they merely attached a heavy cannon-ball to the feet , and then threw them into the sea .
Tobias took the angel who restored him to light for an ordinary young man .
At this moment one of his penitents passed , and as she was young and pretty Aramis took off his cap to her with his most gracious smile .
At the same time , he saw they were about to lower the boat .
Speak , now the queen herself releases you from your promise. ” “ The queen ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , with an astonishment which this time was not pretended .
Athos walked in the direction indicated , and reached the suburb situated at the opposite extremity of the city from that by which he and his friends had entered it .
He , having seen them crossing the yard , took care not to answer , and they rang in vain .
I felt my strength fail , and this time it was not my sleep that enabled the coward to prevail , but my swoon. ” Felton listened without uttering any word or sound , except an inward expression of agony .
On the day after the morrow , by eleven o ’ clock , the two diamond studs were finished , and they were so completely imitated , so perfectly alike , that Buckingham could not tell the new ones from the old ones , and experts in such matters would have been deceived as he was .
We want money for our return to Paris. ” “ I am much attached to that horse , Athos. ” “ And there again you are wrong .
As the marquis had promised , Villefort found the marquise and Renée in waiting .
‘ Do you desire it as ardently as you say ? ’ “ ‘ Yes. ’ “ ‘ Well , then , you shall have it ! ’ “ The young girl , much astonished , raised her head to look at him , but his face was so gloomy and terrible that her words froze to her lips .
What do I want ?
The president put it to the vote , and it was decided that the investigation should take place .
The first movement of D ’ Artagnan was to return it , but Milady added , “ No , no !
It was arranged for the evening and no other time will serve. ” “ I understand , ” said Athos smiling , “ midnight. ” “ About that time. ” “ But , my dear fellow , those are things that bear postponement and you must put it off , especially with so good an excuse to give on your return—— ” “ Yes , if I return. ” “ If you do not return , how does it concern you ?
“ That I believe ! ” answered M. Morrel ; “ but still he is charged—— ” “ With what ? ” inquired the elder Dantès .
Beauchamp told the truth when he said that on his way to the funeral he had met Monte Cristo , who was directing his steps towards the Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin , to M. Danglars ’ .
Do not put yourself to the slightest inconvenience. ” “ Aw ? ” said Lord Wilmore , with that tone which is only known to natives of Great Britain .
What do you think of Monsieur de Tréville telling me , when he did me the honor to call upon me yesterday , that you associated with the suspected English , whom the cardinal protects ? ” “ That is to say , I visit an Englishwoman—the one I named. ” “ Oh , ay !
“ Let me see it , ” said Milady .
Once with the army you may be killed at your good pleasure ; but until that time , I warn you that in my capacity of general of the army I shall order a retreat and turn my back on the first red coat we come across. ” De Guiche and Raoul glanced at each other , smiling .
Meanwhile the guests , seeing that the two friends were longing to be alone , prepared to depart , when a noise of dogs barking resounded through the courtyard and many persons said at the same moment : “ Ah !
I defended the king. ” “ And who told you to defend the king ? ” “ The Comte de la Fere himself. ” “ Yes , the king ; but to-day you have not fought for the king , you have fought for Mazarin ; which is not quite the same thing. ” “ But you yourself ? ” “ Oh , for me ; that is another matter .
The description he gave me perfectly corresponds with the features and character of the man before us .
“ I slept here last night and the night before , and you know it is not my custom to sleep three times in the same bed. ” “ Then , ” said Mordaunt , “ your honor gives me my liberty for to-night ? ” “ And even for all day to-morrow , if you want it .
Ah , if I knew !
He feels that every man owes a tribute to his country ; some contribute their talents , others their industry ; these devote their blood , those their nightly labors , to the same cause .
Then seated on a chair , she looked at the manly countenance of Monte Cristo , on which grief and hatred still impressed a threatening expression .
I ’ m no thief , but an honest citizen , well off in the world , with a house of my own .
It is on her account I am here ; I wish to see Valentine. ” 30315m Villefort thought it would be terrible to reply that Valentine was at a ball ; so he only said that she had gone out with her step-mother , and that she should be fetched .
“ Here , my Lord , here , ” said she , “ keep this in memory of me. ” Buckingham took the casket , and fell a second time on his knees .
I would fain fix the source of it on man that I may no longer vent reproaches upon Heaven. ” “ Then you profess ignorance of the crime with which you are charged ? ” “ I do , indeed ; and this I swear by the two beings most dear to me upon earth , —my father and Mercédès. ” “ Come , ” said the abbé , closing his hiding-place , and pushing the bed back to its original situation , “ let me hear your story. ” Dantès obeyed , and commenced what he called his history , but which consisted only of the account of a voyage to India , and two or three voyages to the Levant , until he arrived at the recital of his last cruise , with the death of Captain Leclere , and the receipt of a packet to be delivered by himself to the grand marshal ; his interview with that personage , and his receiving , in place of the packet brought , a letter addressed to a Monsieur Noirtier—his arrival at Marseilles , and interview with his father—his affection for Mercédès , and their nuptual feast—his arrest and subsequent examination , his temporary detention at the Palais de Justice , and his final imprisonment in the Château d ’ If .
34. ” “ Oh , Villefort , Villefort , ” murmured the count , “ this scene must often have haunted thy sleepless hours ! ” “ Do you wish to see anything more , sir ? ” said the concierge .
He held a vial of salts in his hand .
Ah , stop !
The two young men galloped off in the direction mentioned and in ten minutes reached the inn .
They are aiming—they are going to fire ! ” “ They have received orders to fire on the people if the people approach the Palais Royal ! ” exclaimed Mazarin .
I was uneasy about him. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because you met him at my house , just after his introduction into the world , as they told me .
“ The Count de Rochefort ? ” Grimaud nodded the third time .
This was too much for the procurator ’ s wife ; she doubted not there was an intrigue between this lady and Porthos .
“ It is said to have been a congestion of the brain , or apoplexy , which is the same thing , is it not ? ” “ Nearly. ” “ It is difficult to believe that it was apoplexy , ” said Beauchamp .
No , my daughter is not guilty .
At the sound of the key turning in the lock , and the creaking of the hinges , Dantès , who was crouched in a corner of the dungeon , whence he could see the ray of light that came through a narrow iron grating above , raised his head .
“ Then all is agreed ? ” said she .
But , instead of growing easier , Dantès ’ pains appeared to increase in violence .
The last alternative seemed the most prudent , so he waited until twelve o ’ clock .
From Pontoise another express was sent to the next stage , and in six hours all the horses stationed on the road were ready .
“ You want to know how we came here ?
I will run to Monsieur de Tréville to tell them all this , and will meet them there. ” “ Very well , monsieur , ” said Planchet .
Morcerf , like most other young men of rank and fortune , had his orchestra stall , with the certainty of always finding a seat in at least a dozen of the principal boxes occupied by persons of his acquaintance ; he had , moreover , his right of entry into the omnibus box .
The Spadas remained in doubtful ease , a mystery hung over this dark affair , and the public rumor was , that Cæsar , a better politician than his father , had carried off from the pope the fortune of the two cardinals .
The evening was no longer joy , but delirium .
The breakfast at M. de Tréville ’ s was as gay and cheerful as possible .
I fancied continually that I saw the figure of the Corsican between the branches .
“ And now , ” said the youths , “ we have done all we can for you ; and as we are in haste to rejoin the prince ’ s army we must continue our journey .
“ Yez ; what ’ s the dream ? ” said the Swiss .
But this time our Gascon saw at a glance all the advantage to be derived from the love which Kitty had just confessed so innocently , or so boldly : the interception of letters addressed to the Comte de Wardes , news on the spot , entrance at all hours into Kitty ’ s chamber , which was contiguous to her mistress ’ s .
See , it is on fire yet with his hot blood , for it is not thirty hours since it was drawn from the wound. ” And Grimaud threw the dagger on the table .
The hour of dinner soon arrived .
And with how many fingers does he bless ?
I shall kill him—I can not help it .
My recovery lasted six months .
“ Mordaunt , ” he cried .
“ Sire , ” replied the queen , with a faltering voice , “ because , in the midst of such a crowd as this , I feared some accident might happen to them. ” “ And you were wrong , madame .
There was a moment of silence , during which the two men looked at each other , as if to make a preliminary acquaintance , after which D ’ Artagnan bowed , as a sign that he listened .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is not with me ; he serves under Monsieur Dessessart. ” “ Well , then , take him , ” said the cardinal ; “ when four men are so much attached to one another , it is only fair that they should serve in the same company. ” That same evening M. de Tréville announced this good news to the three Musketeers and D ’ Artagnan , inviting all four to breakfast with him next morning .
In consequence of this feeling of repugnance , he was about to pass without speaking to him , but , as he had done the day before , M. Bonacieux accosted him .
Is it because my opinions differ from yours ? ” “ Nothing of the kind , sir , ” replied Danglars : “ if such had been the case , I only should have been to blame , inasmuch as I was aware of all these things when I made the engagement .
“ M .
Felton barred his passage .
I know an inn , little frequented , but of which the host is entirely devoted to me .
I shall always love you ; be sure of that .
And this time the tone and manner in which the command was given , betokened such growing hostility that the two young men perceived , for the first time , that the mandate was addressed to them .
“ Let us dispatch , ” said the duke .
Happy—beyond measure ! ” “ Well , I am desired by him to give you his compliments and to say that he is in good health. ” D ’ Artagnan almost leaped with joy .
Save the king , and although you care not for the price that is placed upon a good action in this world , leave me the hope that we shall meet again , when I may be able to thank you myself .
The abbé made him smell the contents of the phial , and he again opened his eyes .
He soon left the pathway of the patrol , descended across the rocks , and when arrived on the edge of the sea , whistled .
“ Let him be conquered , exiled , proscribed , provided he still lives .
“ I will show you the way , ” and he went in first .
As for Grimaud , he seemed more sullen than ever .
And yet it was not because the damp had been excluded from the garden ; the earth , black as soot , the thick foliage of the trees betrayed its presence ; besides , had natural humidity been wanting , it could have been immediately supplied by artificial means , thanks to a tank of water , sunk in one of the corners of the garden , and upon which were stationed a frog and a toad , who , from antipathy , no doubt , always remained on the two opposite sides of the basin .
We will therefore leave the two friends , who had nothing important to say to each other , and follow Aramis .
Franz perceived how completely he was in his element ; and , unwilling to interfere with the pleasure he so evidently felt , took up Albert ’ s glass , and began in his turn to survey the audience .
Fortune is precarious ; and if I were a woman and fate had made me a banker ’ s wife , whatever might be my confidence in my husband ’ s good fortune , still in speculation you know there is great risk .
“ In ugliness , in so far as a man can resemble a woman. ” “ Ah !
When this species of summons was made the officer inquired aloud the point of the brig ’ s departure , its route , its landings ; and to all these questions the captain replied without difficulty and without hesitation .
As to Porthos , his barony was perhaps dependent on that affair .
You know he has estates—Porthos ? ” “ I should think so , indeed .
“ With me you will be as safe as in a temple ; I give you my word of a gentleman. ” “ Let us go , ” said she , “ I place full confidence in you , my friend ! ” D ’ Artagnan drew back the bolt with precaution , and both , light as shadows , glided through the interior door into the passage , ascended the stairs as quietly as possible , and entered D ’ Artagnan ’ s chambers .
At three o ’ clock came two companies of the Guards , one French , the other Swiss .
But , sir , once more I beg pardon ; perhaps you are an officer that I am detaining here. ” And he glanced timidly at the count ’ s blue coat .
I would confide my life to them , but I should hesitate ere I trusted them with your majesty ’ s. ” “ Well ! ” said Athos , “ since you have not a regiment , we are three devoted men .
Now in the army , from the division-generals who desire the death of the general-in-chief , to the soldiers who desire the death of the corporals , all desire some one ’ s death .
He perceived his mistake ; but the friends of Aramis were not at all convinced by his denial , and one of them addressed the young Musketeer with affected seriousness .
Danglars looked absolutely stupefied .
0185m Nearly four years had passed away ; at the end of the second he had ceased to mark the lapse of time .
Mme .
Nothing but intrigues !
A most edifying representative I shall make of all the domestic virtues—don ’ t you think so ?
Now , I think no more ; I say only that fortune has turned against me—I had thought to gain heaven , and now I have lost it .
Returning to her own room , Kitty had thrown the purse into a corner , where it lay open , disgorging three or four gold pieces on the carpet .
“ When I tell you a thing , sir , ” said Mordaunt , “ you insult me by doubting it. ” “ I ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ I doubt what you say !
“ A thousand pardons , gentlemen ; but no doubt this man brings me the news I expected. ” And rising also , he went off at a quick pace .
So it was ordered the prisoner was henceforth to eat nothing that had not previously been tasted , and La Ramee was in consequence placed near him as taster .
“ I know you , gentlemen , ” said the cardinal , “ I know you .
Just then a patrol rode up .
The men of my crew , who are devoted to me for life and death , mount guard around this apartment , and watch all the passages that lead to the courtyard .
He had reported to Aramis what had taken place , and Aramis , not less distrustful than he , had increased his suspicions .
D ’ Artagnan made Kitty promise to bring him that letter on the following morning .
“ It seems to me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ with a thousand livres each—I do not speak as a Spartan , but as a procurator— ” This word _procurator_ roused Porthos .
“ Follow me , sir ; ” and without ascending the stairs the guide conducted him by a subterraneous passage to another entrance .
They were , one in the Rue de Vaugirard , No .
why , it is after one o ’ clock. ” “ Your home is a paradise , Porthos ; one takes no note of time .
“ Well , do you not adopt this means , Athos ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Fight on all occasions .
Let us go to Monsieur de Beaufort. ” The two friends went to the Hotel de Vendome .
“ That makes no difference , ” said Aramis , coloring ; “ and who affirmed , as I said , that he had received orders from his master or mistress to place the horse in my stable , without informing me whence it came. ” “ It is only to poets that such things happen , ” said Athos , gravely .
It was indeed Planchet and Grimaud .
“ Onward ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , in a loud voice .
Then , instead of plunging into the mass of documents piled before him , he opened the drawer of his desk , touched a spring , and drew out a parcel of cherished memoranda , amongst which he had carefully arranged , in characters only known to himself , the names of all those who , either in his political career , in money matters , at the bar , or in his mysterious love affairs , had become his enemies .
Albert seized them with a convulsive hand , tore them in pieces , and trembling lest the least vestige should escape and one day appear to confront him , he approached the wax-light , always kept burning for cigars , and burned every fragment .
Porthos , seeing this , retwisted his mustache , elongated his imperial a second time , and began to make signals to a beautiful lady who was near the choir , and who not only was a beautiful lady , but still further , no doubt , a great lady—for she had behind her a Negro boy who had brought the cushion on which she knelt , and a female servant who held the emblazoned bag in which was placed the book from which she read the Mass .
A second hearse , decked with the same funereal pomp , was brought to M. de Villefort ’ s door , and the coffin removed into it from the post-wagon .
Milady changed the conversation without any appearance of affectation , and asked D ’ Artagnan in the most careless manner possible if he had ever been in England .
“ I can tell you but one thing , sir , for the secret you wish to know is not my own .
“ And you , ” asked Porthos , “ haven ’ t you still in your service your old lackey , that good , that brave , that intelligent—-what , then , is his name ? ” “ Planchet—yes , I have found him again , but he is lackey no longer. ” “ What is he , then ? ” “ With his sixteen hundred francs—you remember , the sixteen hundred francs he earned at the siege of La Rochelle by carrying a letter to Lord de Winter—he has set up a little shop in the Rue des Lombards and is now a confectioner. ” “ Ah , he is a confectioner in the Rue des Lombards !
“ Speak , sir !
And to all these questions poor Kitty , forced to put on a pleasant face , responded in a stifled voice whose dolorous accent her mistress did not however remark , solely because happiness is egotistical .
Supposing , for instance , and do not be angry at what I am going to say—— ” “ Well. ” “ Supposing the assertion to be really true ? ” “ A son ought not to submit to such a stain on his father ’ s honor. ” “ _Ma foi ! _ we live in times when there is much to which we must submit. ” “ That is precisely the fault of the age. ” “ And do you undertake to reform it ? ” “ Yes , as far as I am personally concerned. ” “ Well , you are indeed exacting , my dear fellow ! ” “ Yes , I own it. ” “ Are you quite impervious to good advice ? ” “ Not when it comes from a friend. ” “ And do you account me that title ? ” “ Certainly I do. ” “ Well , then , before going to Beauchamp with your witnesses , seek further information on the subject. ” “ From whom ? ” “ From Haydée. ” “ Why , what can be the use of mixing a woman up in the affair ? —what can she do in it ? ” “ She can declare to you , for example , that your father had no hand whatever in the defeat and death of the vizier ; or if by chance he had , indeed , the misfortune to—— ” “ I have told you , my dear count , that I would not for one moment admit of such a proposition. ” “ You reject this means of information , then ? ” “ I do—most decidedly. ” “ Then let me offer one more word of advice. ” “ Do so , then , but let it be the last. ” “ You do not wish to hear it , perhaps ? ” “ On the contrary , I request it. ” “ Do not take any witnesses with you when you go to Beauchamp—visit him alone. ” “ That would be contrary to all custom. ” “ Your case is not an ordinary one. ” “ And what is your reason for advising me to go alone ? ” “ Because then the affair will rest between you and Beauchamp. ” “ Explain yourself. ” “ I will do so .
We will return someday to pray over her grave. ” D ’ Artagnan concealed his face in the bosom of Athos , and sobbed aloud .
“ But , oh , how I passed that time !
At last he uttered a sigh of satisfaction and paused , as if he had partially appeased his hunger .
“ Can it be bad news ? ” “ I fear it. ” “ I will leave you with this stranger ; but as soon as he is gone , if you will permit me , I will return. ” “ _Permit_ you ?
Come , calm yourself , and reckon them up—M .
There only remained in the closet of the wounded duke Laporte and Patrick .
They close it. ” “ What , then ? ” “ Silence !
D ’ Artagnan will give each of us his instructions .
Does this oath satisfy you ? ” “ Yes , ” said they all , with one accord .
What can they have said ? ” and she again tried to think what it could be .
“ Ho !
Around a broken-down carriage the people were uttering imprecations , whilst the persons who had attempted to escape were made prisoners—that is to say , an old man and two women .
They had formed a circle round the invalid ; the second notary was sitting at a table , prepared for writing , and his colleague was standing before the testator in the act of interrogating him on the subject to which we have alluded .
Sometimes , as Hamlet says : ‘ Foul deeds will rise , Though all the earth o ’ erwhelm them , to men ’ s eyes ; ’ but , like a phosphoric light , they rise but to mislead .
Aramis smiled and drew from his vest a cross of diamonds , which was hung around his neck by a chain of pearls .
It was then Albert , returning from his meeting with the count , perceived his father watching for his arrival behind a curtain , and turned aside .
You must depart instantly , monsieur .
But scarcely had the two rapiers clashed , when a company of the Guards of his Eminence , commanded by M. de Jussac , turned the corner of the convent .
The Comte de Wardes of Thursday and the D ’ Artagnan of today are the same person. ” The imprudent young man expected a surprise , mixed with shame—a slight storm which would resolve itself into tears ; but he was strangely deceived , and his error was not of long duration .
As D ’ Artagnan was tolerably reassured with regard to Porthos , and as he was anxious to obtain news of his two other friends , he held out his hand to the wounded man , and told him he was about to resume his route in order to continue his researches .
D ’ Artagnan set out with his four companions , and followed the trench ; the two Guards marched abreast with him , and the two soldiers followed behind .
No. ” “ My faith , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Oh !
“ Ah , there you are , marechal , ” cried Anne of Austria joyfully .
“ This instant , sir—this instant , I beseech you ! ” said the old lady .
In the midst of his amorous projects for the mercer ’ s wife , he did not forget his friends .
“ Without that precaution Valentine would have died before assistance could have been procured .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ Apropos , what are the names of your friends ? ” “ The Count de la Fere , formerly styled Athos ; Monsieur du Vallon , whom we used to call Porthos ; the Chevalier d ’ Herblay , now the Abbé d ’ Herblay , whom we styled Aramis—— ” The cardinal smiled .
I believe in you , and I would have all the merit of my devotion , even if that devotion were stupidity .
Believe me , there are only the two plans I have proposed to you ; forgive my vanity , and tell me which you prefer .
As for Monte Cristo , after this ebullition he closed his eyes as if dazzled by internal light .
Remain neutral monseigneur , if you find that I act as becomes a gallant man. ” “ Young man , ” said Richelieu , “ if I shall be able to say to you at another time what I have said to you today , I promise you to do so. ” This last expression of Richelieu ’ s conveyed a terrible doubt ; it alarmed D ’ Artagnan more than a menace would have done , for it was a warning .
God only knows .
“ ‘ Certainly , ’ replied the count , ‘ are we not in Carnival time ? ’ “ Carmela turned towards the young man who was talking with her , and saying a few words to him , pointed with her finger to Teresa .
I make about twelve thousand francs a year , without counting a little benefice of a thousand crowns the prince gave me. ” “ And how do you make your twelve thousand francs ?
and Madame de Villefort , two ; M. and Madame Danglars , four ; M. de Château-Renaud , M. Debray , M. Morrel , seven ; Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti , eight. ” “ Eight ! ” repeated Bertuccio .
Ah !
She directed her course towards the Faubourg Saint Germain , went down the Rue Mazarine , and stopped at the Passage du Pont-Neuf .
“ There is still something else , ” said he .
He alighted as he saw a species of giant on the steps .
He had now leisure to look to his wound .
Who sends you ? ” “ No one. ” “ How did you know I was in prison ? ” “ I recognized you , some time since , as the insolent dandy who so gracefully mounted his horse in the Champs-Élysées. ” “ Oh , the Champs-Élysées ?
D ’ Artagnan ! ” he cried .
“ No , sire , ” replied Athos .
Athos went toward the house , while the mendicant , who had received his reward , left as fast as his legs could carry him .
How ought she really to be supremely loved !
“ We will charge upon you , then , ” said he , “ if you disobey. ” “ There are five of them , ” said Athos , half aloud , “ and we are but three ; we shall be beaten again , and must die on the spot , for , on my part , I declare I will never appear again before the captain as a conquered man. ” Athos , Porthos , and Aramis instantly drew near one another , while Jussac drew up his soldiers .
They passed the barrier without accident .
Well , try the Hotel de Luynes , Raoul , and ask if the duchess can receive you .
20193m Chapter 37 .
“ At your service , sir , ” he continued .
But you remind me .
“ _Ma foi_ , captain , ” replied the sentry , “ I do not know ; for the last hour I have not heard him stir. ” “ Come in , your excellency , ” said Vampa .
Only I warn you , that when I reside in a country , I conform to all its code , and I have no wish to put myself within the compass of the French laws for your sake. ” “ Oh , do not do that , excellency ; I have always served you faithfully , ” cried Bertuccio , in despair .
Bonacieux , “ you speak that in a tone that frightens me ! ” Mme .
Although professing diametrically opposite principles from those of the editor of the other paper , Beauchamp—as it sometimes , we may say often , happens—was his intimate friend .
Then the vessel resumed its course , still escorted by the little cutter , which sailed side by side with it , menacing it with the mouths of its six cannon .
He felt in the pocket and drew from it a paper ; it was the letter of Aramis : “ Monsieur D ’ Artagnan : You know that I have had a quarrel with a certain gentleman , who has given me an appointment for this evening in the Place Royale .
“ Grimaud and Blaisois are holding your horses , ready saddled. ” “ In that case , ” exclaimed Athos , “ let us not lose an instant , but set off. ” “ Come , ” added the king .
“ No , stay here and try to make Barrois drink the rest of this glass of ether and water .
The accident was set down to the account of robbers , who had stopped the chaise in the wood .
Porthos alone made no reply .
More closely watched than ever , the queen felt certain , without knowing how to tell which , that one of her women had betrayed her .
I will answer for the success of a project which will reflect so much honor on M. de Villefort. ” The procureur arose , delighted with the proposition , but his wife slightly changed color .
During this time , the jeweller made the diamond play and sparkle in the lamplight , and the gem threw out jets of light which made him unmindful of those which—precursors of the storm—began to play in at the windows .
But what the devil are you about , Aramis ? ” continued Athos .
“ Well ; Buckingham heard by some means , no doubt , of my return .
“ How do you know it is the doctor ? ” asked Valentine , astonished .
On my part , I will go out with my hands in my pockets , that nothing may be suspected .
His family will inherit fifteen thousand louis a year from him .
1.F.6 .
The officer who had stopped in front of her and studied her with so much care might have been twenty-five or twenty-six years of age .
“ Bravo ! ” he said ; “ besides , we shall be there at the time of the flight .
The interrogatories , preceded by a minute search operated upon the persons arrested , were almost always framed thus : “ Has Madame Bonacieux sent anything to you for her husband , or any other person ?
It is , then , interesting and even necessary that we should say a few words about it , particularly as many details of this siege are connected in too important a manner with the story we have undertaken to relate to allow us to pass it over in silence .
“ That M. Danglars speculates , whereas he never does. ” “ Truly , madame , I recollect M. Debray told me——apropos , what has become of him ?
He soon saw that the vessel , with the wind dead ahead , was tacking between the Château d ’ If and the tower of Planier .
No one could guess what the dirty rag could be ; I alone suspected that it was the waistcoat of the murdered man .
“ Certainly .
Is she going to fall in love with me , by chance , this fair inconstant ; and will she be disposed to give me myself another sapphire like that which she gave me for De Wardes ? ” D ’ Artagnan rapidly drew his seat nearer to Milady ’ s .
_La Jeune Amélie_ left it three-quarters of a league to the larboard and kept on for Corsica .
“ Whom shall I announce ? ” said the attendant .
“ My friend , ” said Andrea , “ I was coming from Mortefontaine to Senlis , when my horse , which is a troublesome creature , stumbled and threw me .
“ Do you pity him ?
“ With the Count of Morcerf , ” answered Monte Cristo .
For the last ten months my ministers have redoubled their vigilance , in order to watch the shore of the Mediterranean .
Mademoiselle Eugénie , however , merely returned a dissenting movement of the head , while , with a cold smile , she directed the attention of her mother to an opposite box on the first circle , in which sat the Countess G—— , and where Morcerf had just made his appearance .
“ Fortunately , the day after tomorrow we leave Paris .
The young man knelt down .
You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works , reports , performances and research .
“ I was not deceived , ” said he ; “ here is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ; and you are his friends , Messieurs Athos , Porthos , and Aramis. ” The persons whose names were thus pronounced looked at the stranger with astonishment .
Marshal de Grammont was to hold the extreme left , resting on Mericourt .
Had D ’ Artagnan continued his intimacy with these three men he would have become a superior character .
I recognized him when the wind blew upon his cloak. ” “ The devil ! ” said Athos , musingly .
For the rest , the orders had been issued by the count ; he himself had given a plan to Bertuccio , marking the spot where each tree was to be planted , and the shape and extent of the lawn which was to take the place of the paving-stones .
Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare ( or are legally required to prepare ) your periodic tax returns .
It may be easily understood that in the present disposition of his master nothing could be more disagreeable to Bazin than the arrival of D ’ Artagnan , which might cast his master back again into that vortex of mundane affairs which had so long carried him away .
Then , raising him up as Tobit raised the fish by the gills , you must pull him into the room , taking care to squeeze him so tight that he can ’ t cry out. ” “ Oh ! ” said Porthos .
The shutter where Eugénie had rapped was that of a little laundress , who had been previously warned , and was not yet gone to bed .
The young man remained immovable .
Monte Cristo looked for the entrance to the enclosure , and was not long in finding a little wooden gate , working on willow hinges , and fastened with a nail and string .
Under the fixed and inquiring gaze levelled at him from under those beautiful black eyebrows , he prudently turned away , and calmed himself immediately , daunted by the power of a resolute mind .
“ Sir , ” said she , “ it is superfluous for me to tell you that Valentine ’ s marriage is broken off , since it was here that the affair was concluded. ” Noirtier ’ s countenance remained immovable .
Avast , there , all hands !
Sit down , my dear friend , and let us talk. ” And Aramis pushed forward a large easy-chair , in which D ’ Artagnan stretched himself out .
Morrel understood it ; he knew he must call assistance .
“ How can I , if her husband fails in controlling her ? ” asked Lucien ; “ you know the character of the baroness—no one has any influence with her , and she does precisely what she pleases. ” “ Ah , if I were in your place—— ” said Albert .
At last , in an hour after the scene we have just described , she heard someone speaking in a low voice at the door .
The witnesses endeavored to insist , but the president bade them be silent .
Two Angelic Faces .
The aperture of the rock had been closed with stones , then this stucco had been applied , and painted to imitate granite .
As soon as she was seated in the vehicle , she drew from her pocket a very thick black veil , which she tied on to her straw bonnet .
As he saw the abbé rise from his seat and go towards the door , as though to ascertain if his horse were sufficiently refreshed to continue his journey , Caderousse and his wife exchanged looks of deep meaning .
“ Is he not your friend ? ” replied the baron , negligently .
It was easy to call his jailer ’ s attention to the noise , and watch his countenance as he listened ; but might he not by this means destroy hopes far more important than the short-lived satisfaction of his own curiosity ?
Mousqueton , duly instructed , was put at the head of this sudden and new business .
He found pleasure in feeling the water trickle over his burning brow and over his body , agitated by feverish shudders .
“ Oh , yes , scoundrel !
Ten minutes had elapsed since the nurse had left ; Valentine , who for the last hour had been suffering from the fever which returned nightly , incapable of controlling her ideas , was forced to yield to the excitement which exhausted itself in producing and reproducing a succession and recurrence of the same fancies and images .
This disagreement is the only one that has ever taken place between the count and countess , who are still as much united , although married more than twenty years , as on the first day of their wedding. ” 20261m Monte Cristo glanced rapidly at Albert , as if to seek a hidden meaning in his words , but it was evident the young man uttered them in the simplicity of his heart .
“ A woman of the neighbourhood has been sent for , who will be tomorrow at the castle , and will return as often as you desire her presence. ” “ I thank you , sir , ” replied the prisoner , humbly .
twisted his mustache proudly , placing his hand upon his hip .
Have you the diamond ? ” continued Athos .
May I not go and see my friends ? ” “ Yes , sir , you shall see them .
“ Does your honor want a horse ? ” asked Mousqueton .
Oh , I entreat you , my son , if you had entertained such an idea , dispel it ; and my counsel to you—nay , my prayer—is to retain his friendship. ” “ Mother , ” replied the young man , “ you have special reasons for telling me to conciliate that man. ” “ I ? ” said Mercédès , blushing as rapidly as she had turned pale , and again becoming paler than ever .
“ Gentlemen , ” said the man , who was young and pale , bowing with ease and courtesy , “ pardon my curiosity , but I see you come from Paris , or at least that you are strangers at Boulogne. ” “ We come from Paris , yes , ” replied Athos , with the same courtesy ; “ what is there we can do for you ? ” “ Sir , ” said the young man , “ will you be so good as to tell me if it be true that Cardinal Mazarin is no longer minister ? ” “ That is a strange question , ” said Aramis .
As for myself , I shall be proud to face the bullets , or even the rope , in company with you , Athos ; for you have never seemed to me so grand as you are to-day. ” D ’ Artagnan said nothing , but , after having gnawed the flower stalk , he began to bite his nails .
“ We have had orders , ” answered the man , “ to help you in taking care of your prisoners. ” There could be no fault to find with this arrangement ; on the contrary , it seemed to be a delicate attention , to be gratefully received ; D ’ Artagnan , therefore , thanked the man and gave him a crown piece to drink to General Cromwell ’ s health .
“ I do not know what reason government can assign for these useless visits ; when you see one prisoner , you see all , —always the same thing , —ill fed and innocent .
One or two shouts of “ Long live the cardinal ” saluted his shadow ; but instantly hisses and yells stifled them remorselessly .
Edmond listened intently ; an hour passed , two hours passed , and no sound was heard from the wall—all was silent there .
But Morrel , disappointed in his expectations of exciting fear , was conscious only of the other ’ s condescension .
The Battle of Charenton .
Besides , they felt that the _dénouement_ of this second Odyssey was at hand and that there remained but a single effort to make .
“ Here are the horse ’ s hoofs again , it seems , Athos , ” he said carelessly .
Barrois made some steps towards his master .
We have circumvented Cromwell , Mordaunt , and the sea , but we shall find a certain difficulty in circumventing Mazarin. ” “ You forget , ” replied Athos , “ that we consider ourselves your prisoners and not free from the engagement we entered into. ” “ Truly , Athos , ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan , “ I am vexed that such a man as you are should talk nonsense which schoolboys would be ashamed of .
“ After the pope ’ s death and his son ’ s exile , it was supposed that the Spada family would resume the splendid position they had held before the cardinal ’ s time ; but this was not the case .
We can positively assert that his majesty did not quit the Pont-Neuf. ’ ” Lucien half smiled .
When the two were ready to go out , the latter made Grimaud the sign of a man taking aim , and the lackey immediately took down his musketoon , and prepared to follow his master .
Each of them had a ticket attached to it , by which it might be recognized ; and from that moment the Sieur de la Coste was charged with the care of all the doors and all the avenues .
I approve of the deed , but I must pray for the dead. ” “ Your son shall be happy , Mercédès , ” repeated the count .
She thought it was best to preserve silence , to discreetly set off to accomplish her difficult mission with her usual skill ; and then , all things being accomplished to the satisfaction of the cardinal , to come to him and claim her vengeance .
Scattering money round about him as Heaven sprinkles rain .
You are not judges !
Then placing herself in the full light of the lamp which lit the yard : “ Gate ! ” cried she , with her finest contralto voice , and rapping at the window .
Benedetto rejoined his associates , and I saw him from a distance point me out to them as a fool. ” “ Sweet child , ” murmured Monte Cristo .
“ You disturb me ?
Monsieur had just retired , and the youthful Louis , remaining the last , was amusing himself by placing some lead soldiers in a line of battle , a game which delighted him much .
Dantès drew a plan of the island for Faria , and Faria gave Dantès advice as to the means he should employ to recover the treasure .
One light alone was visible ; and Dantès saw that it came from Mercédès ’ chamber .
D ’ Artagnan fought three times with Rochefort , and wounded him three times .
Don ’ t trouble yourself to reveal your good luck ; no one asks for your secret—all the world knows your discretion .
He had fallen asleep and was in a profound slumber when D ’ Artagnan returned .
Him I can place at your disposal ; it is Count de Rochefort. ” “ I know him also , but unfortunately he is not in Paris. ” “ My lord , he has been for three days at the Rue Cassette. ” “ And wherefore has he not been to see me ? ” “ He was told—my lord will pardon me—— ” “ Certainly , speak. ” “ That your lordship was about to treat with the court. ” Gondy bit his lips .
Toward the end of the service , the queen , seeing Comminges standing near her , waiting for a confirmation of the order she had given him before quitting the Louvre , said in a whisper : “ Go , Comminges , and may God aid you ! ” Comminges immediately left the church and entered the Rue Saint Christophe .
Bonacieux into the little apartment of which we have given a description .
One day he was surprised in a lonely road between a Huguenot and a Catholic , with both of whom he had before had business , and who both knew him again ; so they united against him and hanged him on a tree .
“ Madame , ” he said , “ you have wished to conquer the prince your brother—that is to say , the greatest captain of the age ; and when women of genius wish anything they always succeed in attaining it .
The walls were hollowed out in sepulchres , one above the other , and which seemed in contrast with the white stones to open their large dark eyes , like those which we see on the faces of the dead .
Father and Daughter We saw in a preceding chapter how Madame Danglars went formally to announce to Madame de Villefort the approaching marriage of Eugénie Danglars and M. Andrea Cavalcanti .
Yet I had read , I had even written a precise history of the Borgia family , for the sole purpose of assuring myself whether any increase of fortune had occurred to them on the death of the Cardinal Cæsar Spada ; but could only trace the acquisition of the property of the Cardinal Rospigliosi , his companion in misfortune .
It was a little entrance that seemed never to have been opened since the house was built , so entirely was it covered with dust and dirt ; but the well-oiled hinges and locks told quite another story .
On her side the lady , who from time to time blushed , darted with the rapidity of lightning a glance toward the inconstant Porthos ; and then immediately the eyes of Porthos wandered anxiously .
Could a statue of marble have been more impassive and more mute ?
That he was living on a small estate—but where ?
“ Obey , Laporte , do you not see I have no time to lose ? ” Laporte broke the seal , and placed the paper before the eyes of the duke ; but Buckingham in vain tried to make out the writing .
Jackson , ” said he , “ go instantly to the Lord Chancellor , and tell him that I charge him with the execution of these orders .
“ No , ” said Athos ; “ Monsieur Aramis does me the honor to share my opinions. ” “ Could you put me in communication with your witty and agreeable friend ?
underneath a lamp in an inn , anywhere , they ask ‘ Are you one of the Fronde ? ’ They unsheathe , and that ’ s all that is said .
Could you let me hire a horse of you ? ” An innkeeper has always a horse to let , whether it be good or bad .
“ And you believe he died—— ” “ Of hunger , sir , of hunger , ” said Caderousse .
“ Come , come ! ” said Porthos ; “ jump in. ” “ But , monsieur , ” said Mousqueton , “ I can ’ t swim ; let me stay here. ” “ And me , too , monsieur , ” said Blaisois .
Have pity on me , and do for me what I am unable to do for myself. ” As Dantès ( his eyes turned in the direction of the Château d ’ If ) uttered this prayer , he saw off the farther point of the Island of Pomègue a small vessel with lateen sail skimming the sea like a gull in search of prey ; and with his sailor ’ s eye he knew it to be a Genoese tartan .
For his father ’ s death he was in some manner prepared ; but he knew not how to account for the mysterious disappearance of Mercédès .
“ Move , monsieur—move away , I entreat you ; you are exactly in the spot ! ” “ What spot ? ” “ Where he fell. ” 20281m “ My dear Monsieur Bertuccio , ” said Monte Cristo , laughing , “ control yourself ; we are not at Sartène or at Corte .
There we may learn that as credit sinks , the body becomes a corpse , and this is what must happen very soon to the banker who is proud to own so good a logician as you for his daughter. ” But Eugénie , instead of stooping , drew herself up under the blow .
He extinguished the lamp , carefully concealed it , and then went away , closing as well as he could the entrance to the secret passage by the large stone as he descended .
“ A man who holds a sword in his hand , and sees a mortal enemy within reach of that sword , and does not fight , is a coward !
In each of these closets were placed masquerade dresses .
deuce take it !
A brotherhood of penitents , clothed from head to foot in robes of gray sackcloth , with holes for the eyes , and holding in their hands lighted tapers , appeared first ; the chief marched at the head .
Every one was full of curiosity as to who that unknown executioner could be who presented himself so opportunely to assure to the people the promised spectacle , when the people believed it had been postponed until the following day .
In those times panics were common , and few days passed without some city or other registering in its archives an event of this kind .
“ And you responded to his bidding , you imprudent man ? ” “ Well , I can ’ t say I had much choice of going or not going , for I was taken to him between two guards .
The crowd , whilst preserving an appearance of respect and even of affection for the king and queen regent , began to be tumultuous .
“ Étienne , ” said he , “ see why Mademoiselle Eugénie has asked me to meet her in the drawing-room , and why she makes me wait so long. ” Having given this vent to his ill-humor , the baron became more calm ; Mademoiselle Danglars had that morning requested an interview with her father , and had fixed on the gilded drawing-room as the spot .
He made a rapid and brilliant feint which Mordaunt parried .
“ Your eminence , ” said the august visitor , “ it was my first intention to speak of the matters that have brought me here to the queen , my sister , but I have reflected that political affairs are more especially the concern of men. ” “ Madame , ” said Mazarin , “ your majesty overwhelms me with flattering distinction. ” “ He is very gracious , ” thought the queen ; “ can he have guessed my errand ? ” “ Give , ” continued the cardinal , “ your commands to the most respectful of your servants. ” “ Alas , sir , ” replied the queen , “ I have lost the habit of commanding and have adopted instead that of making petitions .
Last year I had four apricots—they stole one , I had one nectarine , only one—well , sir , they ate half of it on the wall ; a splendid nectarine—I never ate a better. ” “ You ate it ? ” “ That is to say , the half that was left—you understand ; it was exquisite , sir .
The lackeys were ordered to act as sentinels .
Come , you are accounted for , you are here , but where are your friends ? ” “ I do not know , my lord .
“ Pardon me , madame , for having by a trick unworthy of a gentleman provoked your anger ; and I , in exchange , pardon you the murder of my poor love and your cruel vengeance against me .
“ We are cousins , it appears , Monsieur Porthos ? ” said the procurator , rising , yet supporting his weight upon the arms of his cane chair .
“ Yes , that is my name. ” “ You said , then , by the word of Bonacieux .
Arrest them. ” “ Ah !
Let us go to breakfast. ” “ I shall be happy to do so ; the morning air has made me hungry. ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos ; “ my air is excellent. ” They went into the chateau ; there was nothing but gilding , high and low ; the cornices were gilt , the mouldings were gilt , the legs and arms of the chairs were gilt .
“ _Certes_ , ” cried Athos , “ you are the best-mounted poet of France or Navarre. ” “ Well , my dear Aramis , you don ’ t want three horses ?
But three weeks had already passed , and the most diligent search had been unsuccessful ; the attempted robbery and the murder of the robber by his comrade were almost forgotten in anticipation of the approaching marriage of Mademoiselle Danglars to the Count Andrea Cavalcanti .
“ Where are you going ? ” asked Dantès .
“ You think of everything , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and I thank you for Planchet , my dear Athos. ” Raoul stared on hearing this name and looked at the count to be quite sure that it was he whom the lieutenant thus addressed .
This idea soon became so insupportable to her that at the risk of whatever terrible consequences might result to herself from it , she implored the captain to put her on shore ; but the captain , eager to escape from his false position—placed between French and English cruisers , like the bat between the mice and the birds—was in great haste to regain England , and positively refused to obey what he took for a woman ’ s caprice , promising his passenger , who had been particularly recommended to him by the cardinal , to land her , if the sea and the French permitted him , at one of the ports of Brittany , either at Lorient or Brest .
He was never seen at the theatres , at concerts , or in any place of public resort .
But do not be uneasy ; even if the powerful voice of nature should be silent , you can not well mistake him ; he will enter by this door .
I believe he found you in some unpleasant position , but do not know of what nature , for I did not ask , not being inquisitive .
“ So that what we presumed to be merely the betrothal feast turns out to be the actual wedding dinner ! ” said Danglars .
In short , doctor although I know you to be the most conscientious man in the world , and although I place the utmost reliance in you , I want , notwithstanding my conviction , to believe this axiom , _errare humanum est_. ” “ Is there one of my brethren in whom you have equal confidence with myself ? ” “ Why do you ask me that ? —what do you wish ? ” “ Send for him ; I will tell him what I have seen , and we will consult together , and examine the body. ” “ And you will find traces of poison ? ” “ No , I did not say of poison , but we can prove what was the state of the body ; we shall discover the cause of her sudden death , and we shall say , ‘ Dear Villefort , if this thing has been caused by negligence , watch over your servants ; if from hatred , watch your enemies. ’ ” “ What do you propose to me , d ’ Avrigny ? ” said Villefort in despair ; “ so soon as another is admitted into our secret , an inquest will become necessary ; and an inquest in my house—impossible !
Why the devil !
This is the matter , gentlemen ; answer and exculpate yourselves , for I stand here to accuse you. ” “ Sire , ” said Lord Leven , with hesitation , “ sire , your majesty has been deceived by false reports. ” “ My own eyes have seen the enemy extend itself between myself and Scotland ; and I can almost say that with my own ears I have heard the clauses of the treaty debated. ” The Scotch chieftains looked at each other in their turn with frowning brows .
“ Speak , speak ! ” said Valentine ; “ I entreat you. ” “ Has your resolution changed , Valentine ? ” “ It can not change , unhappy man ; you know it must not ! ” cried the young girl .
As if the Catholic religion was not the most advantageous and the most agreeable of all religions !
Tomorrow I will see you again , to take my leave. ” With these words the baron went out .
Am I , or am I not , the queen ?
“ Will there be any mass ? ” asked one of the attendants .
You see I am obliged to economize , in case your prosperity should cease .
I am rich , for you have one of the first fortunes in France .
The light had almost disappeared from the former ; doubtless Madame de Villefort had just put out her lamp , and the nightlamp alone reflected its dull light on the window .
“ And your business is—— ” “ That of a confectioner , in the Rue des Lombards. ” “ Explain to me how it happens that , following so peaceful a business , you had such warlike inclinations. ” “ Why does my lord , belonging to the church , now receive me in the dress of an officer , with a sword at his side and spurs to his boots ? ” “ Not badly answered , i ’ faith , ” said Gondy , laughing ; “ but I have , you must know , always had , in spite of my bands , warlike inclinations. ” “ Well , my lord , before I became a confectioner I myself was three years sergeant in the Piedmontese regiment , and before I became sergeant I was for eighteen months the servant of Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” “ The lieutenant of musketeers ? ” asked Gondy .
“ Gaetano , ” said he to the captain , “ you tell me Monte Cristo serves as a refuge for pirates , who are , it seems to me , a very different kind of game from the goats. ” “ Yes , your excellency , and it is true. ” “ I knew there were smugglers , but I thought that since the capture of Algiers , and the destruction of the regency , pirates existed only in the romances of Cooper and Captain Marryat. ” “ Your excellency is mistaken ; there are pirates , like the bandits who were believed to have been exterminated by Pope Leo XII. , and who yet , every day , rob travellers at the gates of Rome .
I have more reasons than you can imagine for desiring to know who he is , from whence he came , and whither he is going. ” “ Where he comes from I am ignorant ; but I can readily tell you where he is going to , and that is down below , without the least doubt. ” “ Let us only speak of the promise you wished me to make , ” said Franz .
Whilst these projects were being formed by the Duc de Beaufort and Grimaud , the Comte de la Fere and the Vicomte de Bragelonne were entering Paris by the Rue du Faubourg Saint Marcel .
and you are not afraid of that , Athos ? ” “ No , ” replied Athos , “ it is not the search of Mazarin that I fear. ” “ Now , ” said Aramis , “ tell me a little what you do fear. ” “ Nothing for the present ; at least , nothing in good earnest. ” “ And with regard to the past ? ” asked Porthos .
“ ‘ Listen ! ’ said he .
I live retired in the house of my noble protector , but I do it from choice .
From th ’ abyss he ’ ll give ear to my moan. ” Felton stood before this strange apparition like one petrified .
Five minutes later he was in the Rue des Fossoyeurs .
Monte Cristo heard and saw nothing , or rather he only saw Morrel , whose calmness had a frightful effect on those who knew what was passing in his heart .
Here , father , here ! ” he said , “ take this—take it , and send for something immediately. ” And he emptied his pockets on the table , the contents consisting of a dozen gold pieces , five or six five-franc pieces , and some smaller coin .
Anne of Austria was informed of it and concealed her uneasiness from every one .
During the twenty years I served , I often wished to do so , but I had not the time. ” “ These are the ideas that render your nation superior to any other , ” returned Monte Cristo .
“ Alas , no ! ” said Mme .
“ Tell me your wishes and I will comply with them. ” The queen spoke with some impatience .
You alarm me .
I may say with Lucullus , if I could have anticipated the honor of your visit , I would have prepared for it .
Now , Monsieur de Vallon , ” said Mazarin , “ what service do you prefer , in the town or in the country ? ” Porthos opened his mouth to reply .
This was Albert ’ s favorite lounging place .
Just as my mother was on the point of pushing open a small door , we heard the voice of the pasha sounding in a loud and threatening tone .
After passing through the Porte Saint Denis , Athos looked at Raoul ’ s way of riding and observed : “ Take care , Raoul !
In five minutes Bazin made his appearance , looking in every direction to see if he were observed , but he saw no one .
Morrel looked attentively on Villefort .
“ It is very evident that it is the letter W which M. Noirtier wants , ” said the notary .
“ See what an exordium ! ” cried the Jesuit .
Jesus Seigneur .
Valentine had raised herself upon her elbow , and had scarcely time to throw herself down on the bed and shade her eyes with her arm ; then , trembling , agitated , and her heart beating with indescribable terror , she awaited the event .
Through the ingenuousness of her age beamed an ardent mind , not of the woman , but of the poet .
he has the true military style. ” “ What , ho ! ” said Grimaud .
You are quite upset !
Two hours later , thirty officiating ministers from the most populous , and consequently the most disturbed parishes of Paris had assembled there .
“ And what is the news ? ” “ You should not ask a stranger , a foreigner , for news. ” “ I know it , but in asking for news , I mean , have you done anything for me ? ” “ Had you commissioned me ? ” said Monte Cristo , feigning uneasiness .
If he were rich , if he had Cavalcanti ’ s fortune , that might be pardoned .
“ Just God ! ” he muttered , “ whence comes this thought ?
I knight you , monsieur le comte. ” Then turning to Aramis , he said : “ It is now your turn , monsieur le chevalier. ” The same ceremony recommenced , with the same words , whilst Winter unlaced his leather cuirass , that he might disguise himself like the king .
His wife , on the contrary , whose maiden name had been Madeleine Radelle , was pale , meagre , and sickly-looking .
In the proper time and place I will remember everything .
“ Maximilian , Maximilian , ” he said , “ the ideas you yield to are unworthy of a Christian. ” “ Oh , do not fear , my friend , ” said Morrel , raising his head , and smiling with a sweet expression on the count ; “ I shall no longer attempt my life. ” “ Then we are to have no more pistols—no more despair ? ” “ No ; I have found a better remedy for my grief than either a bullet or a knife. ” “ Poor fellow , what is it ? ” “ My grief will kill me of itself. ” “ My friend , ” said Monte Cristo , with an expression of melancholy equal to his own , “ listen to me .
“ Edmond , ” said Mercédès , “ I have but one word more to say to you. ” The count smiled bitterly .
The troop of friends saw it gain the opposite bank ; the figures were defined like black shadows on the red-tinted horizon .
He therefore went down the Rue des Petits Augustins , and came up to the quay , in order to take the New Bridge .
I have told you twenty times that if you wish to die on that day , I will assist you .
Believe soft-spoken gentlemen again !
They questioned him as to his sentiments , but he contented himself with answering , that the letters from the Island of Elba ought to have informed them—— ’ ” Franz interrupted himself by saying , “ My father was a royalist ; they need not have asked his sentiments , which were well known. ” “ And hence , ” said Villefort , “ arose my affection for your father , my dear M. Franz .
The child was born , was given to me—motionless , breathless , voiceless ; we thought it dead. ” Madame Danglars moved rapidly , as though she would spring from her chair , but Villefort stopped , and clasped his hands as if to implore her attention .
“ You were wishing just now , ” said Villefort , addressing her , “ that I were a doctor instead of a lawyer .
The palace was surrounded with water , but a kind of staircase had been fixed to the lower walls ; and the only difference was , that instead of entering by the doors , people entered by the windows .
There he found Madeleine alarmed for his safety and anxious to tell him all the events of the evening , but he cut her short by ordering her to put his supper in his room and give him with it a bottle of good Burgundy .
He found her in bed , overwhelmed with grief at this public humiliation .
During the six weeks that Athos and Aramis had been absent from France , the Parisians , finding themselves one morning without either queen or king , were greatly annoyed at being thus deserted , and the absence of Mazarin , a thing so long desired , did not compensate for that of the two august fugitives .
A man like Danglars was wholly inaccessible to any gentler method of correction .
As to Cocles , he seemed completely bewildered .
“ The prisoners sometimes , through mere uneasiness of life , and in order to be sentenced to death , commit acts of useless violence , and you might fall a victim. ” “ Take all needful precautions , ” replied the inspector .
“ Come , monsieur , ” he said , “ you are good in council , as we have already discovered ; to-morrow we shall know if you are good in action. ” “ And I , ” said the marshal , “ what am I to do ? ” “ Wait here to receive the troops .
His name , or rather a plaintive voice which essayed to pronounce his name , reached him .
Morrel looked around uneasily .
“ This doctor has a niece , ” continued Aramis .
Monte Cristo , turned round hastily , and saw Madame de Morcerf at the entrance of the salon , at the door opposite to that by which her husband had entered , pale and motionless ; when Monte Cristo turned round , she let fall her arm , which for some unknown reason had been resting on the gilded door-post .
Well , just as you like , my prince ; there ’ s liberty for all the world .
The young man now knew her secret , her terrible secret—the secret she concealed even from her maid with such care , the secret of which all the world was ignorant , except himself .
It was the evening before when I had fallen asleep ; my sleep , then , must have lasted twenty-four hours !
The monk entered the chamber and approached the bed of the wounded man .
The jailer went out , and returned in an instant with a corporal and four soldiers .
you know I take but little sleep , and I do not suppose you are very much inclined for it either. ” Bertuccio bowed , and resumed his story .
He stated his scruples and the difficulties of the case ; it was the honor of M. de Morcerf , and that of the whole House , he proposed to defend , by provoking a debate on personal questions , which are always such painful themes of discussion .
The house was ready , and the sloop which had arrived a week before lay at anchor in a small creek with her crew of six men , who had observed all the requisite formalities and were ready again to put to sea .
Besides , I care not for his displeasure. ” “ Still , situated as we are—— ” “ Yes , do you know how we are situated ?
Bonacieux ; “ but why , then , did you cry out so ? ” “ Do you not understand ? ” said Milady , who had already overcome her agitation and recovered all her presence of mind .
“ Tell the king that if he sleeps badly to-night he will sleep better to-morrow night. ” These blunt words , so terrible if taken literally , were received by the other workmen with a roar of laughter .
“ That depends ; when do you leave ? ” “ Tomorrow evening , at five o ’ clock. ” “ In that case I must say adieu to you , as I am compelled to go to Naples , and shall not return hither before Saturday evening or Sunday morning .
Monseigneur , I was furnished with a description of your horses , your lackeys , your countenances—nothing was omitted. ” “ Go on , go on ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , who quickly understood whence such an exact description had come .
This portrait attracted the Count of Monte Cristo ’ s attention , for he made three rapid steps in the chamber , and stopped suddenly before it .
But what can I do for you ? ” Then D ’ Artagnan told M. de Tréville a long history about the queen .
Everything about the count seemed to have its meaning , for the constant habit of thought which he had acquired had given an ease and vigor to the expression of his face , and even to the most trifling gesture , scarcely to be understood .
“ Ah , good morning , my dear count , ” said he .
Do you know in what crime you are to-day engaged ?
And the man opposite to you is—— “ The man I saw go in. ” “ Do you know him ? ” “ I thought I recognized him , and was not mistaken .
He pressed the count ’ s hand and left .
Remember that she is a woman whom you have dishonored. ” “ Withdraw , sir , ” said Buckingham , “ or I will call my attendant , and have you placed in irons. ” “ You shall not call , ” said Felton , throwing himself between the duke and the bell placed on a stand encrusted with silver .
Chapter LXXXI .
He feared , then , to see her too often .
“ But , ” she exclaimed , suddenly , “ arsenic is indelible , indestructible ; in whatsoever way it is absorbed , it will be found again in the body of the victim from the moment when it has been taken in sufficient quantity to cause death. ” “ Precisely so , ” cried Monte Cristo— “ precisely so ; and this is what I said to my worthy Adelmonte .
“ You were at the festival of your marriage ? ” said the deputy , shuddering in spite of himself .
“ Luigi felt a sensation hitherto unknown arising in his mind .
If you could but persuade him to come out , monsieur , I should owe you the gratitude of my whole life ; I should adore you as my patron saint ! ” “ Then he is there ?
In the Rue de Seine he met Planchet , who had stopped before the house of a pastry cook , and was contemplating with ecstasy a cake of the most appetizing appearance .
“ Here is a bag containing five hundred pistoles in gold ; make all your arrangements , and tell me where I shall be able to find you this evening at ten o ’ clock. ” “ It must be on some elevated place , whence a given signal may be seen in every part of Paris. ” “ Shall I give you a line for the vicar of St. Jacques de la Boucherie ?
Do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
“ Ich bin ein Deutscher , ” replied the prisoner .
“ Upon my word , ” said Caderousse , from whose mind the friendly treatment of Dantès , united with the effect of the excellent wine he had partaken of , had effaced every feeling of envy or jealousy at Dantès ’ good fortune , — “ upon my word , Dantès is a downright good fellow , and when I see him sitting there beside his pretty wife that is so soon to be .
I tied my lantern to a forked branch I had noticed a year before at the precise spot where I stopped to dig the hole .
One thing I was sorry for ; when I bade him have the horns of the oxen gilded , he told me there would not be time , as it would require three days to do that ; so you see we must do without this little superfluity. ” “ And where is he now ? ” “ Who ? ” “ Our host. ” “ Gone out in search of our equipage , by tomorrow it might be too late. ” “ Then he will be able to give us an answer tonight. ” “ Oh , I expect him every minute. ” At this instant the door opened , and the head of Signor Pastrini appeared .
The marshal thought this barrier not so well fortified as the others and determined to break through it .
Well , am I to rush into his arms , and strain him to my heart , crying , ‘ My father , my father ! ’ like Monsieur Pixérécourt. ” 27 “ Do not let us jest , ” gravely replied Bertuccio , “ and dare not to utter that name again as you have pronounced it. ” “ Bah , ” said Andrea , a little overcome , by the solemnity of Bertuccio ’ s manner , “ why not ? ” “ Because the person who bears it is too highly favored by Heaven to be the father of such a wretch as you. ” “ Oh , these are fine words. ” “ And there will be fine doings , if you do not take care. ” “ Menaces—I do not fear them .
“ Let me propose it , then , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
But as for me , I have been a coward ; I have denied God and he has abandoned me. ” 50213m Mercédès burst into tears ; her woman ’ s heart was breaking under its load of memories .
Your Monsieur Bonacieux is very tiresome. ” The commissary designated by the same gesture Athos and Bonacieux , “ Let them be guarded more closely than ever. ” “ And yet , ” said Athos , with his habitual calmness , “ if it be Monsieur d ’ Artagnan who is concerned in this matter , I do not perceive how I can take his place. ” “ Do as I bade you , ” cried the commissary , “ and preserve absolute secrecy .
“ Ah !
The duchess loudly lamented the announcement of peace .
“ I would rather have had a hat , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
What a life I cause you to lead , poor Maximilian , you who are formed for happiness !
“ My son , ” said the old Gascon gentleman , in that pure Béarn _patois_ of which Henry IV .
Our bark flew before the wind .
Give me anything you like , it is of little consequence. ” “ Go and fetch Lord de Winter , ” said Felton , tired of these eternal complaints .
Is he alive and at liberty ?
serpent , ” muttered D ’ Artagnan , “ I would give my chance of a captaincy in the mousquetaires for that to be my name. ” Aramis opened the paper , and in a voice trembling with hate and vengeance read “ D ’ Artagnan. ” The Gascon uttered a cry of joy and turning to Mordaunt : “ I hope , sir , ” said he , “ you have no objection to make. ” “ None , whatever , ” replied the other , drawing his sword and resting the point on his boot .
Fortunately , however , he had not been taken ; the people , believing that he had escaped by some back entrance , retired and left him at liberty to retreat .
She looked up and uttered an exclamation of joy .
“ Well ? ” asked the young girl , with an authoritative tone the count had never observed before , and which startled him .
Bonacieux .
Behind this figure glowed a vast fireplace alive with leaping flames ; great logs of oak blazed and crackled on the polished brass andirons whose flicker shone upon the superb habiliments of the lonely tenant of the room , which was illumined grandly by twin candelabra rich with wax-lights .
Well , this man was making signs to another at my left , and turning around I recognized the honest Grimaud .
“ Oh , it ’ s nothing , nothing ! ” cried Milady .
He credited this woman , who appeared to him the equal of a demon , with agents as supernatural as herself ; at the least noise , he imagined himself about to be arrested , and that Planchet was being brought back to be confronted with himself and his friends .
“ Yes , but that would take too much time and I am thirsty .
“ The devil ! ” replied the prince ; “ surely , at the death of Mazarin .
Does he hate his majesty as much as he does us ? ” “ Pardi , ” answered Athos “ we only carried off his mother ; the king has spoiled him of his name and property. ” “ True , ” said Aramis ; “ but silence !
The young man remarked the greedy glance which shone in the dark eyes of his neighbor .
“ MARIE MICHON ” “ Oh , what do I not owe you , Aramis ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
His countenance , usually so pale , was purple with heat and passion .
Gentlemen , your hands ; are we not pretty good Christians ? ” “ Egad ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ by Heaven !
These two men , thus opposed in age and interests , resembled two parts of a triangle , presenting the extremes of separation , yet nevertheless possessing their point of union .
Arrived at the bastion , the four friends turned round .
When daylight dawned he saw that he was near a stream ; he was thirsty , and dragged himself towards it .
In fact , in addition to that yellow , sickly paleness which indicates the insinuation of the bile in the blood , and which might , besides , be accidental , D ’ Artagnan remarked something perfidiously significant in the play of the wrinkled features of his countenance .
“ Calm yourself , dear Rene , ” said the soft voice , “ the same thing will never happen again .
But the most fearful spectacle was Noirtier being pushed towards the bed , his face expressing all his meaning , and his eyes supplying the want of every other faculty .
“ It is too late , ” said Mazarin , tearing his hair , “ too late ! ” The gale had given way .
Well ; I shall rent a room in some respectable house , wear a decent coat , shave every day , and go and read the papers in a café .
“ And what has happened to you , my dear Porthos ? ” continued D ’ Artagnan .
He then repaired to D ’ Artagnan , who , thanks to his four trusses of straw , was in the act of making up and tasting , by anticipation , the luxury of a bed so soft , so well stuffed at the head , so well covered at the foot , that it would have excited the envy of the king himself , if his majesty had not been fast asleep in his own .
The repast was magnificent ; Monte Cristo had endeavored completely to overturn the Parisian ideas , and to feed the curiosity as much as the appetite of his guests .
“ No !
“ Look at it , and tell me what you think of it. ” “ What a wicked-looking , crooked staircase , ” said Château-Renaud with a smile .
a bruise. ” “ Yes , I think I received a flower-pot upon my head. ” “ Brutes ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The coadjutor glanced rapidly behind and saw that he was followed by another man .
Ah—— ” And as if struck in the heart he let go the hook and dropped with a groan .
Still , in spite of all , you must admit that this Count of Monte Cristo is a most singular personage. ” “ He is a philanthropist , ” answered the other ; “ and no doubt his motive in visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon prize , given , as you are aware , to whoever shall be proved to have most materially advanced the interests of virtue and humanity .
“ And on what floor does he live ? ” asked Comminges .
I took him to the Rue Payenne , to exactly the same spot where , a year before , at the very same hour , he had paid me the compliment I have related to you .
stop an instant , the name seems certainly familiar .
“ This niece comes sometimes to see her uncle ; and by chance was there yesterday at the same time that I was , and it was my duty to offer to conduct her to her carriage. ” “ Ah !
“ Throw myself in the water and strangle him. ” “ Oh , gentlemen ! ” cried Athos , “ be men !
“ Do I ?
Half an hour had passed when the carriage stopped suddenly ; the count had just pulled the silken check-string , which was fastened to Ali ’ s finger .
Have you been to the general ? ” said Mordaunt to D ’ Artagnan and Porthos ; “ you know he sent for you after the action. ” “ We want first to put our prisoners in a place of safety , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Penelon , Penelon ! ” An old man , who was digging busily at one of the beds , stuck his spade in the earth , and approached , cap in hand , striving to conceal a quid of tobacco he had just thrust into his cheek .
And do you not perceive that in the person of this priest is represented the whole people of Paris and that it is dangerous to insult him at this moment , and if this priest wished it , in an hour you would be without a crown ?
This , as you know , is the important point of distinction between the Covenanter and the Cavalier. ” After some discussion this was agreed to and Mousqueton played the role of barber .
D ’ Artagnan listened to him with exemplary complaisance , and when he had finished said , “ And Madame Bonacieux , do you know who carried her off ? —For I do not forget that I owe to that unpleasant circumstance the good fortune of having made your acquaintance. ” “ Ah ! ” said Bonacieux , “ they took good care not to tell me that ; and my wife , on her part , has sworn to me by all that ’ s sacred that she does not know .
Aramis returned soon with a man from the Hotel de Rohan , who was saying to him : “ You swear , sir , that it is not so ? ” “ Stop , ” and Aramis gave him a louis d ’ or .
Athos remained motionless , looking after him until he turned the corner of the street .
It was in the name of Comte de Wardes .
You understand—no more delay. ” “ Yes , sir , I will give my attention to the subject. ” “ I do not say that I await with pleasure his decision , but I do await it .
If he was detected in this and the earth proved too heavy , he would be stifled , and then—so much the better , all would be over .
“ Ha , ha ! ” cried Lord de Winter ; “ ha , ha !
Now four days had elapsed , and Valentine still lived .
I have not said adieu to him ! ” A noise was heard like that the instrument of death would make if moved upon the block .
Leaving the village of Linas , without stopping at the telegraph , which flourished its great bony arms as he passed , the count reached the tower of Montlhéry , situated , as everyone knows , upon the highest point of the plain of that name .
“ That letter is not lost ! ” cried he .
Edmond fancied he heard a bitter laugh resounding from the depths .
“ That is well , ” said Mme .
Myself and Planchet are all that such a simple expedition requires. ” To this Athos replied quietly : “ We also have money left—for I have not yet drunk all my share of the diamond , and Porthos and Aramis have not eaten all theirs .
Adieu , your excellency ; depend upon me as firmly as I do upon you. ” Saying these words , the Transteverin disappeared down the staircase , while his companion , muffling his features more closely than before in the folds of his mantle , passed almost close to Franz , and descended to the arena by an outward flight of steps .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ And that worthy Monsieur du Vallon , are we not to enjoy his society ? ” “ Certainly , my lord ; he is waiting in his carriage at the gate of the garden of the Palais Royal. ” “ And we start in his carriage , then ? ” “ Yes , my lord. ” “ And with us no other escort but you two ? ” “ Is it not enough ?
Of this wine , the first bottle being a little thick at the bottom , Brisemont poured the lees into a glass , and D ’ Artagnan desired him to drink it , for the poor devil had not yet recovered his strength .
The Breakfast Chapter 41 .
Our Gascon promised this without risk , for he knew all that was meant .
They were thus perpetually employed , —Faria , that he might not see himself grow old ; Dantès , for fear of recalling the almost extinct past which now only floated in his memory like a distant light wandering in the night .
Monte Cristo bent his head .
START : FULL LICENSE THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works , by using or distributing this work ( or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” ) , you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license .
“ After so many years of painful separation , ” said Andrea , in the same tone of voice , and glancing towards the door , “ what a happiness it is to meet again ! ” “ Indeed it is , after so long a separation. ” “ Will you not embrace me , sir ? ” said Andrea .
We were too devoted servants to refuse him a request of that sort .
“ Yes. ” “ What do you hope ? ” The old man made him understand with his eyes that he could not answer .
The cardinal ’ s hair stood on end .
And having done so , entirely on my own account , be it understood , I would add that I believe you too gentlemanly to refuse giving him some explanation concerning your connection with Yanina .
“ Bah ! ” said Danglars , “ a lad of his make was not born to be unhappy in love .
“ And why not ? ” asked the young man .
The carriage rolled with a thundering noise over the pavement , and everyone turned to notice the dazzling meteor .
He would enter into the minister ’ s schemes with the more ardor , because his natural activity would be doubled by necessity .
“ What do you mean ? ” “ I only mean that the count seems the rage , ” replied the viscount , smiling , “ and that you are the seventeenth person that has asked me the same question .
Whether Noirtier understood the young man ’ s indecision , or whether he had not full confidence in his docility , he looked uneasily at him .
34 .
Since that time , monsieur , nobody entered his chamber but his servant. ” “ What !
de Villefort , ” replied the doctor , with increased vehemence , “ there are occasions when I dispense with all foolish human circumspection .
Sure of himself , convinced of his own power , certain that the laws which rule other men could not reach him , he went straight to the object he aimed at , even were this object so elevated and so dazzling that it would have been madness for any other even to have contemplated it .
“ What for ?
And then , you ungrateful being , you are not pleased to see an old friend ?
“ I want to go into Master Broussel ’ s house , captain , ” replied Friquet , in that wheedling way the “ gamins ” of Paris know so well how to assume when necessary .
He was not long in making his toilet .
50089m Maximilian rushed up the little staircase , while Noirtier ’ s eyes seemed to say , — “ Quicker , quicker ! ” In a minute the young man darted through several rooms , till at length he reached Valentine ’ s .
Peppino At the same time that the steamer disappeared behind Cape Morgiou , a man travelling post on the road from Florence to Rome had just passed the little town of Aquapendente .
* * * END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO , ILLUSTRATED * * * Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will be renamed .
Therefore , after the connection had continued three years , carefully fostered by D ’ Artagnan , who found his bed and his mistress more agreeable every year , each doing credit to the other , the mistress conceived the extraordinary desire of becoming a wife and proposed to D ’ Artagnan that he should marry her .
There you must find the curate , or if he is not at home , go to the convent of the Augustines , which is the last house on the right , and bring me one of the brothers .
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 .
“ Ah , but the valise I want , ” cried Porthos , “ is a well-filled one , my dear. ” Madame uttered fresh sighs .
“ Then we must fly ! ” said he .
How was he going to find Athos ?
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” murmured Raoul .
No , —but , perhaps , you will permit me to call to mind—stay ! ” The Count placed his hand on his brow as if to collect his thoughts .
“ That is doubtless our boat , ” said Athos .
13 , Paris. ” “ Now can you conceive of any interest that your heroic deputy could possibly have had in the destruction of that letter ? ” “ Why , it is not altogether impossible he might have had , for he made me promise several times never to speak of that letter to anyone , assuring me he so advised me for my own interest ; and , more than this , he insisted on my taking a solemn oath never to utter the name mentioned in the address. ” “ Noirtier ! ” repeated the abbé ; “ Noirtier ! —I knew a person of that name at the court of the Queen of Etruria , —a Noirtier , who had been a Girondin during the Revolution !
I know you are as brave and venturesome as any man in the world , but you do not belong to me alone ; you belong to all our party .
Seated opposite to him , Monte Cristo watched him in the shadow , and Morrel saw nothing but the bright eyes of the count .
The time of the Carnival was at hand .
Although he was a perfect stranger in the court of M. de Tréville ’ s courtiers , and this his first appearance in that place , he was at length noticed , and somebody came and asked him what he wanted .
Have you not read in my eyes that there is nothing but devotion and sympathy in my heart ? ” “ Yes , ” replied Mme .
START : FULL LICENSE THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works , by using or distributing this work ( or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” ) , you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license .
“ And it is exactly because he is a bold fellow that he is the more to be feared. ” “ I must have , ” said the duke , “ a proof of his connection with Buckingham. ” “ A proof ? ” cried Milady ; “ I will have ten. ” “ Well , then , it becomes the simplest thing in the world ; get me that proof , and I will send him to the Bastille. ” “ So far good , monseigneur ; but afterwards ? ” “ When once in the Bastille , there is no afterward ! ” said the cardinal , in a low voice .
Monte Cristo made a sign to him to be silent .
“ What on earth can you have been saying to that bulldog ? ” exclaimed Porthos .
By the torchlight Dantès saw the glittering sabres and carbines of four gendarmes .
“ Please to know , Monsieur Porthos , ” said she , “ that my strongbox , the strongbox of a procurator ’ s wife though it may be , is better filled than those of your affected minxes. ” “ That doubles the offense , ” said Porthos , disengaging his arm from that of the procurator ’ s wife ; “ for if you are rich , Madame Coquenard , then there is no excuse for your refusal. ” “ When I said rich , ” replied the procurator ’ s wife , who saw that she had gone too far , “ you must not take the word literally .
The king , followed by the three friends , turned his steps that way .
“ Certainly ; and why should I regret what gives you pleasure ? ” “ Oh !
Mousqueton sighed again , more deeply than before .
He felt that in returning to camp he should re-enter slavery ; nevertheless , he did return .
Yes , yes !
“ He took her to his château , and made her the first lady in the province ; and in justice it must be allowed that she supported her rank becomingly. ” “ Well ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Do you remember how he cried , ‘ On , D ’ Artagnan , on , I am taken ’ ?
Athos did not move .
“ I understand , ” said Porthos .
“ His name is— ” said she , in her turn .
“ My dear friend , ” said the cardinal , leaning , as they walked through the garden , on his friend ’ s arm , “ you told me just now that you had been twenty years in the queen ’ s service. ” “ Yes , it ’ s true .
Thanks for those sweet words !
He found a young shepherd watching his flock .
Felton took advantage of this moment , and plunged the knife into his side up to the handle .
“ Release Broussel ! ” she cried , “ never ! ” At this moment steps were heard in the ante-room and without any announcement the Marechal de la Meilleraie appeared at the door .
Albert at this moment ran in .
If your friends are the more speedy , you are to be saved ; if the satellites of the cardinal , you are lost. ” “ Oh , yes , yes ; lost beyond redemption !
“ I believe so , ” replied Aramis .
“ Now , where are you going ? ” “ To Brussels , if you like ; it is the nearest frontier .
The carriage passed under two arched gateways , and at length stopped in a court large , dark , and square .
“ How can you reconcile that with his conduct this morning ? ” “ All owing to your influence , ” replied Monte Cristo , smiling .
This time the clerks evinced no inclination to laugh , such a real ear clipper did Porthos appear .
No , I would rather die. ” By thus exaggerating to his own mind the anticipated ill-fortune of the next day , to which he had condemned himself by promising Mercédès to spare her son , the count at last exclaimed : “ Folly , folly , folly ! —to carry generosity so far as to put myself up as a mark for that young man to aim at .
During this time the empire made its last conscription , and every man in France capable of bearing arms rushed to obey the summons of the emperor .
“ I escaped the Morcerf only to fall into the Cavalcanti. ” “ Oh , do not confound the two , Eugénie. ” “ Hold your tongue !
Go. ” The musketeers set off and D ’ Artagnan was left alone with Raoul .
They were ambitious , and Cæsar Borgia soon found purchasers for their appointments .
He was occupied with the preparations for Raoul ’ s departure and was seeking to gain time .
“ And since—I do not give it , ” said the musketeer .
_Argumentum omni denudatum ornamento_ .
“ What a splendid business that last case of yours was , my dear Villefort ! ” remarked a third ; “ I mean the trial of the man for murdering his father .
madame , more hopeless than he thinks .
“ He—again ! ” cried Porthos , who was breathing like a blacksmith ’ s bellows ; “ why , he is made of iron. ” “ Oh , my God ! ” muttered Athos .
“ All this negotiation must be carried on openly. ” “ I will follow your Eminence ’ s instructions to the letter .
The horses went like the wind , and in a few minutes they were at the gates of London .
The host insisted ; but the travelers were firm , and he was obliged to do as they wished .
It was that paper you read this morning ; read it again , Dantès , and then I will complete for you the incomplete words and unconnected sense. ” Faria , with an air of triumph , offered the paper to Dantès , who this time read the following words , traced with an ink of a reddish color resembling rust : “ This 25th day of April , 1498 , be ... Alexander VI. , and fearing that not ... he may desire to become my heir , and re ... and Bentivoglio , who were poisoned , ... my sole heir , that I have bu ... and has visited with me , that is , in ... Island of Monte Cristo , all I poss ... jewels , diamonds , gems ; that I alone ... may amount to nearly two mil ... will find on raising the twentieth ro ... creek to the east in a right line .
The road selected was a continuation of the Via Sistina ; then by cutting off the right angle of the street in which stands Santa Maria Maggiore and proceeding by the Via Urbana and San Pietro in Vincoli , the travellers would find themselves directly opposite the Colosseum .
The jailer advanced ; Dantès appeared not to perceive him .
D ’ Artagnan picked it up ; by good luck it had not been extinguished .
What shall we do ? ” “ What are we going to do , i ’ faith ?
This one will not oppress you by his dignity. ” “ ’ Tis the same thing—you understand me , D ’ Artagnan—a court. ” “ There ’ s no court now .
“ You are the directors of all consciences .
On our arrival we began to discharge our cargo in the night , and to convey it into the town , by the help of the innkeeper with whom we were connected .
I do not know you. ’ ‘ I am , ’ said I , ‘ the little abbé who reads _Lives of the Saints_ , and translates Judith into verse. ’ ‘ Ah , ah !
We can find no fault with you for watching over yourselves , when you watch so carefully over others .
On reaching the gate the captain of the post advanced at the head of a dozen men , holding a lantern in his hand .
“ Our magnificence makes you smile , count , ” said Maximilian , who had followed him with his eyes .
“ You know no one but Monsieur de Tréville ? ” he asked .
Instead of living the retired baker , you might live as a bankrupt , using his privileges ; that would be very good. ” “ But how the devil would you have me retire on twelve hundred francs ? ” “ Ah , Caderousse , ” said Andrea , “ how covetous you are !
“ Yes , ” replied Franz , “ here I am , ” and he , in his turn , left the caves .
Milady , reclining in an armchair near the chimney , beautiful , pale , and resigned , looked like a holy virgin awaiting martyrdom .
At the same time , four of the band , who were concealed on the banks of the Almo , surrounded the carriage .
Although you say I do not like him , I assure you I shall be happy to see him. ” “ I will obey your orders , my lord. ” “ Good-bye. ” “ Until Saturday , when I may expect you , may I not ? ” “ Yes , I promised you. ” The Count watched Albert , waving his hand to him .
Bonacieux in her power .
“ Do you hear the guns , pray ?
Before he could be possibly set free the cardinal would be dead ; and indeed , so convinced is he of this , that he entreated me , should I find your majesty disposed to act in this way , to do all I could to induce you to change your resolution. ” “ Well , then , I will content myself with arresting you ! ” “ Madame , the possibility of my arrest has been foreseen , and should I not have returned by to-morrow , at a certain hour the next day the cardinal will be brought to Paris and delivered to the parliament. ” “ It is evident , sir , that your position has kept you out of relation to men and affairs ; otherwise you would know that since we left Paris monsieur le cardinal has returned thither five or six times ; that he has there met De Beaufort , De Bouillon , the coadjutor and D ’ Elbeuf and that not one of them had any desire to arrest him. ” “ Your pardon , madame , I know all that .
Your majesty has none but submissive and respectful subjects .
‘ Go , ’ said he ; ‘ the enemy will not rally for fifteen days and until that time I have no need of your service .
But he has no sooner destroyed his first will and made a second , than , for fear he should make a third , he is struck down .
“ I , pardieu ! ” “ And you would arrest him ? ” “ Why not ? ” “ You would arrest the Duc de Beaufort , armed , in the field ? ” “ If your eminence should order me to arrest the devil , I would seize him by the horns and would bring him in. ” “ So would I , ” said Porthos .
During this time Valentine , at once terrified and happy , after having embraced and thanked the feeble old man for thus breaking with a single blow the chain which she had been accustomed to consider as irrefragable , asked leave to retire to her own room , in order to recover her composure .
They entered ; behind a glass window , by the light of the cardinal ’ s lantern , which had been placed on the floor in the midst of the gallery , they saw the orange and pomegranate trees of the Castle of Rueil , in long lines , forming one great alley and two smaller side alleys .
He opened his mouth to reply , but with a haughty gesture the cardinal dismissed him .
If it is God ’ s justice , instead of his anger , which is walking through that house , Maximilian , turn away your face and let his justice accomplish its purpose. ” Morrel shuddered .
What a dreadful death—what a blow !
“ What is his name ? ” “ Count Albert ; it is the same man whom I rescued from the hands of the banditti at Rome. ” “ In what language would you like me to converse with him ? ” Monte Cristo turned to Albert .
Yes , we will fly ; I will confess all to her , —I will tell her daily that I also have committed a crime ! —Oh , what an alliance—the tiger and the serpent ; worthy wife of such as I am !
Do you know , M. Andrea , I think you have managed this affair rather skilfully ? ” “ Not badly , by any means , ” said the young man ; “ I was born for a diplomatist. ” “ Well , you must become a diplomatist ; diplomacy , you know , is something that is not to be acquired ; it is instinctive .
my poor mother ! ” said Villefort , “ to have such duties to perform at your age after such a blow ! ” “ God has supported me through all ; and then , my dear marquis , he would certainly have done everything for me that I performed for him .
“ Yes , ” said the king , “ but I do not wish to be touched by any of those men. ” “ Sire , I am here , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and I give you my word , that if a single man has the audacity , his life shall pay for it. ” “ And now what is to be done ? ” asked the queen , “ for I hear them. ” “ Monsieur Laporte , go to them and again recommend silence .
The crowd opened and closed again , undulating like a stormy sea , and the king imagined that he saw shining in the midst of this living wave the bright eyes of Athos .
he who presumed to be a rival of yours , for which he was severely punished ; that ought to satisfy you. ” “ ‘ Yes , but it does not ; I am rancorous—the only stigma that proves me to be a churchman .
His air of perfect serenity made Mazarin uneasy .
At last , after a few moments , Cromwell raised his head , and , as if he divined that some one was there , turned slowly around .
I hoped your house would have been some other one than this ; as if there was not another house at Auteuil than that of the assassination ! ” “ What , what ! ” cried Monte Cristo , stopping suddenly , “ what words do you utter ?
We will embrace Raoul , and perhaps he will have news of Athos. ” “ Stop—an idea ! ” cried Porthos ; “ indeed , my dear D ’ Artagnan , I don ’ t know how you manage , but you are always full of ideas ; let us go and embrace Raoul. ” “ Woe to that man who should happen to contradict my master at this moment , ” said Mousqueton to himself ; “ I wouldn ’ t give a farthing for his life. ” They set out .
Ay , that will do—at Armentières. ” “ Where is that Armentières ? ” “ A little town on the Lys ; I shall only have to cross the river , and I shall be in a foreign country. ” “ Capital !
Besides , he is almost mad now , and in another year he will be quite so. ” “ So much the better for him , —he will suffer less , ” said the inspector .
Scarron was heated , the cold seized on him , and when he reached the farther bank he found himself crippled .
I set out three days ago , passing miraculously through the Puritan army , and I took post horses with my servant Tony ; the horses upon which we were mounted were bought in Paris .
“ What , are there no grottos at Monte Cristo ? ” he asked .
And why presently ?
One thing only perplexed Edmond , and destroyed his theory .
The Waking Chapter 33 .
Your arrest is known , that of your friends will soon be known ; and all the nobility of France would demand an explanation of your disappearance .
Ten minutes afterward she was at home .
Then it grew nearer , and it seemed to her , almost at the same time , that she heard the neighing of horses .
“ The more so , sir , as it was men ’ s and not God ’ s doing. ” “ Tell me of those men , ” said the abbé , “ and remember too , ” he added in an almost menacing tone , “ you have promised to tell me everything .
The history of Athos ’ s imprisonment was then related to them ; and as they were really gentlemen , they pronounced the host in the wrong .
The heart of the young man overflowed with joy .
“ Still , I must own I am sorry to be obliged to give up the cart and the group of reapers—it would have produced such an effect !
30 , the son whom you had by the Marchesa Corsinari , and who was taken from you at five years of age .
“ Come. ” The same cabriolet which had brought Villefort took them back at full speed , and at this moment Morrel rapped at Monte Cristo ’ s door .
1.F.5 .
“ By General Oliver Cromwell .
Madame Danglars uttered a scream and fainted .
He had seen the two mortal enemies of the musketeers , had seen Mordaunt adjust the fuse ; he had heard the proverb , which Mordaunt had given in French .
The very name assumed by his host of Monte Cristo and again repeated by the landlord of the Hôtel de Londres , abundantly proved to him that his island friend was playing his philanthropic part on the shores of Piombino , Civita Vecchia , Ostia , and Gaëta , as on those of Corsica , Tuscany , and Spain ; and further , Franz bethought him of having heard his singular entertainer speak both of Tunis and Palermo , proving thereby how largely his circle of acquaintances extended .
A rich uniform , half French , half Oriental , set off his graceful and stalwart figure , and his broad chest was decorated with the order of the Legion of Honor .
He will do anything I wish .
But the Count of Monte Cristo surrounds me with every paternal care , and I am ignorant of nothing which passes in the world .
“ That you will go and fetch me the letter your comrade has in his pocket. ” “ But , ” cried the bandit , “ that is only another way of killing me .
M. and Madame de Villefort bowed and left the room , giving orders that Valentine should be summoned to her grandfather ’ s presence , and feeling sure that she would have much to do to restore calmness to the perturbed spirit of the invalid .
But Dantès was far from being as enthusiastic and confident as the old man .
“ Oh , where will be the end ? ” Villefort rushed into the room .
“ Had I such a uniform as your eminence possesses , I protest I should be mightily content , and I would take an oath never to wear any other costume—— ” “ Yes , but for to-night ’ s adventure I don ’ t suppose my dress would have been a very safe one .
“ At what age did you leave Greece , signora ? ” asked he .
yes , my pocket has a hole in it. ” “ Oh , yes , Monsieur Raoul ! ” said Mousqueton , “ the letter was very consoling .
yet one wants some one besides you for that , my fine king ’ s cockatoo !
“ Come , sir , ” said Comminges , “ make haste ; you must obey the king. ” “ Sir , ” said Broussel , “ I am in bad health and can not give myself up a prisoner in this state ; I must have time. ” “ It is impossible , ” said Comminges ; “ the order is strict and must be put into execution this instant. ” “ Impossible ! ” said Louvieres ; “ sir , beware of driving us to despair. ” “ Impossible ! ” cried a shrill voice from the end of the room .
“ Well , ” replied Milady , after a moment of silence , “ from the present time , cease to talk of impossibilities. ” “ Do not overwhelm me with happiness , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , throwing himself on his knees , and covering with kisses the hands abandoned to him .
In fact , the count ’ s face brightened .
Why , it is as good as a century !
“ The thin , spare man ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The executioner , in short ? ” asked Aramis .
“ Does your excellency wish for a receipt ? ” said the major , at the same time slipping the money into the inner pocket of his coat .
“ Well , my dear Parry , ” said he , “ what is the matter , and what can affect you in this manner ? ” “ Oh , my king , ” said Parry , with tears in his eyes and in a tone of supplication , “ do not look to the left as we leave the hall. ” “ And why , Parry ? ” “ Do not look , I implore you , my king. ” “ But what is the matter ?
No human being , not even my sister , is aware of its existence .
Then he put out his hand , and encountered an obstacle and with another stroke knew that he had gained the shore .
“ Now , ” continued Aramis , “ as the ladies did not see the singer come back , and as he was found in the Rue Payenne with a great sword wound through his body , it was supposed that I had accommodated him thus ; and the matter created some scandal which obliged me to renounce the cassock for a time .
Do not lull yourself in security , or you will be lost ; but , on the contrary—and it is I who say it—see enemies in all directions .
If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder , your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder .
With one word you have crushed it , and I die. ” “ But the duel will not take place , Edmond , since you forgive ? ” “ It will take place , ” said Monte Cristo , in a most solemn tone ; “ but instead of your son ’ s blood to stain the ground , mine will flow. ” Mercédès shrieked , and sprang towards Monte Cristo , but , suddenly stopping , “ Edmond , ” said she , “ there is a God above us , since you live and since I have seen you again ; I trust to him from my heart .
He breakfasted heartily , and caring little , as he said , for the beauties of the Eternal City , ordered post-horses at noon .
All that , however , has nothing to do with my obligations to you , and I now come to ask you whether , in my own person , my family , or connections , I can in any way serve you ?
Now I may hope that God will forgive me , since my crime is expiated. ” “ Explain yourself. ” said Grimaud .
Only with that word you would be quartered instead of being broken on the wheel. ” “ Well , perhaps .
and Clement VII. , but it will never succeed now , for they attempted it fruitlessly , and Napoleon was unable to complete his work .
“ There can be no doubt about it , ” thought he ; “ it is some prisoner who is striving to obtain his freedom .
“ Well , conceal me somewhere ; you can say you were needlessly alarmed ; you can turn their suspicions and save my life ! ” 50053m The two ladies , pressing closely to one another , and drawing the bedclothes tightly around them , remained silent to this supplicating voice , repugnance and fear taking possession of their minds .
Who knows if they will not manage to restore to me my pension ?
It is upon one higher placed than I am that God has laid this responsibility. ” “ To you—no , to you alone !
But marrying , as I am about to do , before all Paris , I ought to be supported by an illustrious name , and in the absence of the paternal hand some powerful one ought to lead me to the altar ; now , my father is not coming to Paris , is he ? ” “ He is old , covered with wounds , and suffers dreadfully , he says , in travelling. ” “ I understand ; well , I am come to ask a favor of you. ” “ Of me ? ” “ Yes , of you. ” “ And pray what may it be ? ” “ Well , to take his part. ” “ Ah , my dear sir !
M. de Tréville contented himself with asking D ’ Artagnan if he could do anything for him , but D ’ Artagnan answered that he was supplied with all he wanted .
And you , Aramis , you were going , I think , to visit Madame de Longueville. ” “ I did go there. ” “ Well ? ” “ She was no longer there , but she had left her new address. ” “ Where was she ? ” “ Guess ; I give you a thousand chances. ” “ How should I know where the most beautiful and active of the Frondists was at midnight ?
THE RENDEZVOUS Chapter XXIV .
Besides , courage was out of the question here ; D ’ Artagnan had fallen into an ambush .
I am of a frankness of character quite French. ” Rochefort bit his lips in order to prevent a smile .
Where is the count , friend ?
At every step that Edmond took he disturbed the lizards glittering with the hues of the emerald ; afar off he saw the wild goats bounding from crag to crag .
“ We are going to return to the service , Mouston , ” replied Porthos , still trying to restore his mustache to the military curl it had long lost .
“ There ’ s luck , my lord !
Grimaud followed Athos .
At the end of ten minutes the bandit made them a sign to stop .
“ Have you really met with some great misfortune ? ” “ Oh , no , monsieur , ” said Villefort with a bitter smile ; “ it is only a loss of money which I have sustained—nothing worth mentioning , I assure you. ” “ True , ” said Monte Cristo , “ the loss of a sum of money becomes almost immaterial with a fortune such as you possess , and to one of your philosophic spirit. ” “ It is not so much the loss of the money that vexes me , ” said Villefort , “ though , after all , 900,000 francs are worth regretting ; but I am the more annoyed with this fate , chance , or whatever you please to call the power which has destroyed my hopes and my fortune , and may blast the prospects of my child also , as it is all occasioned by an old man relapsed into second childhood. ” 30183m “ What do you say ? ” said the count ; “ 900,000 francs ?
The cardinal , then , was seeking to preserve him from some misfortune which threatened him .
“ I am her best friend. ” “ Upon my honor , ” said Rochefort , “ it takes you , my dear countess , to perform such miracles ! ” “ And it is well I can , Chevalier , ” said Milady , “ for do you know what is going on here ? ” “ No. ” “ They will come for her tomorrow or the day after , with an order from the queen. ” “ Indeed !
Porthos regretted that he had not at once made the lady of the red cushion a princess .
“ Sir , ” said the servant , “ I have a favour to ask you. ” “ Speak out , my friend. ” “ I am afraid to do so .
“ You say , sir—— ” said the king .
And now , what do you want ? ” “ Oh , how extraordinary !
“ Pardon , madame , ” he said , “ I am not a lawyer , I am a mere soldier , and probably , therefore , I do not quite comprehend the value of certain words ; I ought to have said the wishes , and not the will , of the people .
what joy for my lord and master , Du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds ! ” “ Thou good Mousqueton !
D ’ Artagnan then repeated his name , and in an instant recovering all his remembrances of the present and the past , M. de Tréville grasped the situation .
If so , speak out , ” answered Athos .
“ Yes , ” answered Monte Cristo “ happily , yes , conscience does remain ; and if it did not , how wretched we should be !
Nature has made us thus ; she makes the young look ever forward , not behind .
“ How has this terrible past been recalled ? ” cried Villefort ; “ how is it that it has escaped from the depths of the tomb and the recesses of our hearts , where it was buried , to visit us now , like a phantom , whitening our cheeks and flushing our brows with shame ? ” “ Alas , ” said Hermine , “ doubtless it is chance. ” “ Chance ? ” replied Villefort ; “ No , no , madame , there is no such thing as chance. ” “ Oh , yes ; has not a fatal chance revealed all this ?
The month passed , and Morrel made extraordinary efforts to get in all his resources .
All his furniture consisted of a bed , a chair , a table , a pail , and a jug .
It was late ; the priest , who had gone to bed , cried out to them to come in .
Guard the prisoners well , I beg of you. ” The sergeant made a sign , as much as to say he did not understand French , and D ’ Artagnan tried to make him comprehend by signs and gestures .
Two men lay prone upon the ground , one bathed in blood and motionless , with his face toward the earth ; this one was dead .
Oh , work , work , —my passion , my joy , my delight , —it is for thee to alleviate my sorrows ! ” and he convulsively grasped the hand of d ’ Avrigny .
“ Yes , you were thinking of it , and with justice .
“ And what kind of a man ? ” “ A genuine Englishman , your eminence .
No ; its odor charms one of my senses—that is all I can say when I am asked why I praise it .
I do not know the young man ; he is said to be of good family and rich , but I never trust to vague assertions .
D ’ Artagnan leaned against the hedge , after having cast a glance behind it .
Dantès turned and perceived that they had got out to sea .
We will not venture to say whether it was from terror created by the threats or from tenderness at seeing four friends so closely united .
Also because he is not sure of always retaining his situation , and wishes to provide for the future .
“ The day passed away without having any other influence on me than to strengthen the resolution I had formed ; only I took care that my face should not betray the thoughts of my heart , for I had no doubt I was watched .
I know his character ; he is inflexible in any resolutions formed for his own interests .
As , however , he did not fall , as he did not declare himself conquered , but only broke away toward the hôtel of M. de la Trémouille , in whose service he had a relative , D ’ Artagnan was ignorant of the seriousness of the last wound his adversary had received , and pressing him warmly , without doubt would soon have completed his work with a third blow , when the noise which arose from the street being heard in the tennis court , two of the friends of the Guardsman , who had seen him go out after exchanging some words with D ’ Artagnan , rushed , sword in hand , from the court , and fell upon the conqueror .
They saw him in the distance climbing the rock in order to look down upon the boat as it passed .
“ And alone ? ” “ No , my lord , madame has visitors. ” “ Have you any objection to meet any persons who may be with madame , or do you desire to preserve a strict _incognito_ ? ” “ No , indeed , ” replied Monte Cristo with a smile , “ I do not arrogate to myself the right of so doing. ” “ And who is with madame ? —M .
Let us call one of these lackeys , with a demi-pistole in the left hand. ” “ Exactly so , ” cried Aramis .
Monsieur de Retz wished to become archbishop in his uncle ’ s place , and cardinal , like Mazarin ; and the popular party could with difficulty accord him favors so entirely royal .
_A propos_ , ” said M. de Tréville , calling him back .
“ Edmond , ” said she , and her eyes were wet with tears while looking at him to whom she spoke , “ how noble it is of you , how great the action you have just performed , how sublime to have taken pity on a poor woman who appealed to you with every chance against her , Alas , I am grown old with grief more than with years , and can not now remind my Edmond by a smile , or by a look , of that Mercédès whom he once spent so many hours in contemplating .
Is it not true , Antoine ? ” asked the governor .
“ You surprise me ! ” exclaimed the monarch .
You will see the same at every opening from this palace to which I should lead you .
“ Do I look so ? ” asked the baron , rising and going a step backward .
“ Fernand , ” cried he , “ of my hundred names I need only tell you one , to overwhelm you !
Immediately one of the men who were waiting slipped down into the moat , tied under Grimaud ’ s shoulders the end of a cord , and the remaining two , who held the other end , drew Grimaud to them .
Can I trust in you ? ” “ Oh , madame ! ” cried the young woman , falling on her knees ; “ upon my soul , I am ready to die for your Majesty ! ” This expression sprang from the very bottom of the heart , and , like the first , there was no mistaking it .
M. Morrel , allow me to present to you M. Franz d ’ Épinay , a delightful travelling companion , with whom I made the tour of Italy .
“ Zounds ! ” he said ; “ I don ’ t suppose there is a more contented man at this moment in all the kingdom than yourself ! ” “ You are right , my lord duke , ” answered the officer ; “ I don ’ t know any pleasanter sight on earth than a well covered table ; and when , added to that , he who does the honors is the grandson of Henry IV. , you will , my lord duke , easily comprehend that the honor fairly doubles the pleasure one enjoys. ” The duke , in his turn , bowed , and an imperceptible smile appeared on the face of Grimaud , who kept behind La Ramee .
“ Without you ?
“ Well , don ’ t you intend to bring me another plate ? ” said Dantès .
He thought directly of his bag and rushed from the inner room where he was sleeping .
20167m “ As you left the choice of your costumes to me , ” said the count to the two friends , “ I have had these brought , as they will be the most worn this year ; and they are most suitable , on account of the _confetti_ ( sweetmeats ) , as they do not show the flour. ” Franz heard the words of the count but imperfectly , and he perhaps did not fully appreciate this new attention to their wishes ; for he was wholly absorbed by the spectacle that the Piazza del Popolo presented , and by the terrible instrument that was in the centre .
But it must be acknowledged , this response was but momentary .
“ Well now , ” he said , “ it seems , my dear friend , that something vexes you ; you are ill , perhaps ?
But it has none. ” In fact , the side of the letter opposite the seal was blank .
Old Dantès was dying with anxiety to know what had become of Edmond .
Let your majesty mount on horseback and place yourself in the midst of us ; we will cross the Tyne , reach Scotland , and you will be saved. ” “ Is this your counsel also , Winter ? ” inquired the king .
“ Is monsieur your cousin ?
It matters little now to me .
If it were so with M. Morrel—— ” “ Unfortunately , ” replied the count , “ I am witness that M. Morrel can not give up his horse , his honor being engaged in keeping it. ” “ How so ? ” “ He laid a wager he would tame Médéah in the space of six months .
Since the death of Madame de Saint-Méran , I have known that a poisoner lived in my house .
Besides , is he not a butcher ’ s son ?
“ Well , sir , ” said Andrea , bowing to the banker respectfully , “ may I hope ? ” “ You may not only hope , ” said Danglars , “ but consider it a settled thing , if no obstacle arises on your part. ” “ I am , indeed , rejoiced , ” said Andrea .
What—the truly guilty ? ” “ The truly guilty , ” said Milady , “ is the ravager of England , the persecutor of true believers , the base ravisher of the honor of so many women—he who , to satisfy a caprice of his corrupt heart , is about to make England shed so much blood , who protects the Protestants today and will betray them tomorrow— ” “ Buckingham !
He glanced mechanically towards the piazza—the scene was wholly changed ; scaffold , executioners , victims , all had disappeared ; only the people remained , full of noise and excitement .
Chapter LXIV .
I am not obliged to read any breviary .
At this spot Milady had come out of the wood , and entered the carriage .
The surgeon declared that the situation of the Musketeer had nothing in it to render his friends uneasy , his weakness having been purely and simply caused by loss of blood .
Her grief , which she had hitherto tried to restrain , now burst out in a violent fit of hysterical sobbing .
We will judge you in spite of your silence .
I will take him dead , that ’ s all. ” A terrible cry was heard , and the wife and daughters of Broussel held up their hands in supplication to the people ; the latter knew that this officer , who was so pale , but who appeared so determined , would keep his word ; they continued to threaten , but they began to disperse .
Grimaud , in a swoon , was tied securely to a horse .
He knew the Abbé de Gondy only by report .
These horsemen were our friends , or rather , an avant garde , composed of D ’ Artagnan and Athos .
As soon as the identity of my brother was proved , I was set at liberty .
The young man , wishing to spare his employer the pain of this interview , questioned the new-comer ; but the stranger declared that he had nothing to say to M. Emmanuel , and that his business was with M. Morrel in person .
At this moment a ray of light glanced across the face of the midnight visitor .
Today is the twentieth of September .
“ It appears there is something fresh aboard. ” “ Aramis , ” said Athos , “ you went to breakfast the day before yesterday at the inn of the Parpaillot , I believe ? ” “ Yes. ” “ How did you fare ? ” “ For my part , I ate but little .
However , promise me one thing. ” “ What is it ? ” “ Promise me , I say. ” “ I will do anything you desire , except relinquish my determination of finding out who this man is .
This day of reunion was the same day as that on which Kitty came to find D ’ Artagnan .
He resolved this time to know with whom he had to deal , and fell upon the body of his comrade as if he were dead .
Into these pavilions he admitted the elect , and there , says Marco Polo , gave them to eat a certain herb , which transported them to Paradise , in the midst of ever-blooming shrubs , ever-ripe fruit , and ever-lovely virgins .
In your situation distrust those who are well provided with every formality. ” “ Enter the guardroom , ” said the sergeant ; “ we will lay your case before the commandant of the post. ” The guardroom was filled with citizens and common people , some playing , some drinking , some talking .
Grimaud , according to custom , obeyed in silence ; the poor lad had nearly come to the pass of forgetting how to speak .
In each there was an enemy to contend with , and contributions to be levied .
“ Forgive my servants , ” he said , “ for a terror I can not blame them for ; from being suspected they have become suspicious. ” Madame Danglars had often heard of the terror to which the magistrate alluded , but without the evidence of her own eyesight she could never have believed that the sentiment had been carried so far .
“ Was that all he said ? ” inquired Athos .
“ This knife was my only hope .
My story will be accepted , for there is no one left to contradict me. ” As he spoke , Dantès looked toward the spot where the fishing-vessel had been wrecked , and started .
“ Alas , ” murmured Edmond ; “ can it be ? ” He moved his bed , drew up the stone , rushed into the passage , and reached the opposite extremity ; the secret entrance was open .
“ My faith !
“ His excellency did not charge me to purchase this house .
And M. Bonacieux , whom D ’ Artagnan had pushed into the hands of the officers , denying him aloud although he had promised in a whisper to save him ?
His tongue was paralyzed in his mouth .
Come in , gentlemen. ” D ’ Artagnan obeyed ; for Athos had the solemn voice and the powerful gesture of a judge sent by the Lord himself .
What is life to you ? —Nothing .
“ Here , ” said Milady , rising with the majesty of a queen , “ here , Felton , behold the new martyrdom invented for a pure young girl , the victim of the brutality of a villain .
Chapter 56 .
“ I am about to be seized with a fit of catalepsy ; when it comes to its height I shall probably lie still and motionless as though dead , uttering neither sigh nor groan .
Morrel is in his room , is he not , Mademoiselle Julie ? ” said the cashier .
What the devil did you come to such a country for , Athos ?
He criticised everybody humorously .
She has lost a tooth , next to the eyetooth on the left ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The _fleur-de-lis_ is small , rosy in color , and looks as if efforts had been made to efface it by the application of poultices ? ” “ Yes. ” “ But you say she is English ? ” “ She is called Milady , but she may be French .
He was still comparatively young , he was surrounded by the loving care of a devoted family , but he had convinced himself by a course of reasoning , illogical perhaps , yet certainly plausible , that he must separate himself from all he held dear in the world , even life itself .
Monte Cristo looked in turn at the two iron handles by which the machine was worked .
And I have also a deep conviction that heaven would not have created two hearts , harmonizing as ours do , and almost miraculously brought us together , to separate us at last. ” “ Those are kind and cheering words .
“ Has it ever happened to you ? ” said Monte Cristo .
Is this not more than a poor sailor like me could have hoped for ? ” “ Yes , my dear boy , ” replied the old man , “ it is very fortunate. ” “ Well , then , with the first money I touch , I mean you to have a small house , with a garden in which to plant clematis , nasturtiums , and honeysuckle .
He now arose , his head bowed beneath the weight of grief , and , shaking his damp , dishevelled hair , he who had never felt compassion for anyone determined to seek his father , that he might have someone to whom he could relate his misfortunes , —someone by whose side he might weep .
“ During that time he had many moments of despair .
But Danglars had not reckoned upon the formalities of the police and the idleness of the posting-master .
And is the reason known ? ” “ No. ” “ How extraordinary !
“ Change these lackeys , ” said he ; “ she has spoken to them .
Monte Cristo went to the window , and saw them crossing the street , arm in arm .
Morrel raised his head , and reading the eyes of the old man , which gleamed with unnatural lustre , — “ Stay , ” he said , “ M .
It is horrible , indeed , but no one assassinates. ” The eyes of Noirtier lighted up with rage , and d ’ Avrigny prepared to speak .
In the bosom of this corpse was plunged a poniard , the gold hilt of which shone in the moonbeams .
The porter was not yet gone to bed .
Ho !
Let us take our precautions , Athos. ” “ But suppose they come unarmed ?
Well , we are going to give a ball to Mazarin. ” “ I hope so. ” “ And when will the dance begin ? ” “ The invitations are given for this evening , ” said the coadjutor , “ but the violins will not begin to play until to-morrow morning. ” “ You may reckon upon me and upon fifty soldiers which the Chevalier d ’ Humieres has promised me whenever I need them. ” “ Upon fifty soldiers ? ” “ Yes , he is making recruits and he will lend them to me ; if any are missing when the fete is over , I shall replace them. ” “ Good , my dear Rochefort ; but that is not all .
He had recognized by certain unmistakable signs , that his fair _incognita_ belonged to the aristocracy .
May I give you a friendly counsel ?
She did not invoke God , we very well know , but she had faith in the genius of evil—that immense sovereignty which reigns in all the details of human life , and by which , as in the Arabian fable , a single pomegranate seed is sufficient to reconstruct a ruined world .
“ Pardieu !
You know I always did call you my child. ” “ Come , come , what then ? ” “ Patience—patience ! ” “ I am patient , but go on. ” “ All at once I see you pass through the barrier with a groom , a tilbury , and fine new clothes .
How happy I am ! ” At this word _she_ , Athos , who had seated himself quietly , started up .
He had himself a daughter about her age , but whose life was one continued source of anxiety and fear to him from her mother having been consumptive .
“ By my honor , these Gascons are incorrigible !
Alight , Planchet , and inquire , for I confess that I have scarcely courage so to do. ” Planchet alighted .
I will introduce you to them. ” “ But they appear to speak French with a very pure accent , ” said Danglars .
Is it not natural that the madman , ignorant of his folly , should attempt things beyond his power ?
“ Did he take Baptistin with him ? ” “ No , my lord. ” “ Call him , then ; I wish to speak to him. ” The concierge went to seek the valet de chambre , and returned with him in an instant .
D ’ Artagnan , in his turn , sprang to the ground , and just at the moment when the coachman , alarmed at not seeing his master , fell back a step , he seized him by his collar with the left , whilst with the right hand he placed the muzzle of a pistol at his breast .
“ Eh !
Whilst he thus hesitated the host re-entered the room , followed not only by a surgeon , but by many other persons , whom curiosity had attracted to the spot .
I hope that you will sometimes , too , think of me , and if at certain hours you should miss me , if you should feel any slight regret at my absence , I shall be overwhelmed with joy at the thought that you appreciate my affection for and my devotion to yourself , and that I have been able to prove them to you whilst I had the happiness of living with you. ” After finishing this letter Raoul felt more composed ; he looked well around him to see if Olivain and the host might not be watching him , whilst he impressed a kiss upon the paper , a mute and touching caress , which the heart of Athos might well divine on opening the letter .
Oh , my God , my God ! ” And she rose , with her hair dishevelled , and her lips foaming .
1.E .
Bonacieux , who was charged with going to fetch the duke and conducting him to the Louvre , was abducted .
“ If it were as you pretend it is , ” said he , “ I should be forced , my dear Aramis , to reclaim it myself ; for , as you very well know , Bois-Tracy is an intimate friend of mine , and I can not allow the property of his wife to be sported as a trophy. ” “ You make the demand badly , ” replied Aramis ; “ and while acknowledging the justice of your reclamation , I refuse it on account of the form. ” “ The fact is , ” hazarded D ’ Artagnan , timidly , “ I did not see the handkerchief fall from the pocket of Monsieur Aramis .
The officer took Bonacieux by the arm , and led him into the antechamber , where he found his two guards .
Ah , cursed basilisk , it will be a happy day for me when I can cross something more than a look with you. ” “ The king is really very handsome , ” said Porthos ; “ and look , too , though he is a prisoner , how carefully he is dressed .
I shall call you presently. ” Patrick went out .
The opportunity was good .
Well , you have this excuse : advancement , the opening campaign , the opportunity which I offer you—so much for the world .
What can Cardinal Mazarin be to us , to four men who compelled such a man as Richelieu to act as we pleased ?
The four countenances expressed four different feelings : that of Porthos , tranquillity ; that of D ’ Artagnan , hope ; that of Aramis , uneasiness ; that of Athos , carelessness .
As to Lord de Winter , he contented himself with calling the woman who waited on Milady , and when she was come , he recommended the prisoner , who was still fainting , to her care , and left them alone .
Tell your client that , although I am the insulted party , in order to carry out my eccentricity , I leave him the choice of arms , and will accept without discussion , without dispute , anything , even combat by drawing lots , which is always stupid , but with me different from other people , as I am sure to gain. ” “ Sure to gain ! ” repeated Beauchamp , looking with amazement at the count .
“ ’ Tis well , ” resumed the king .
Mercédès had no fire in that cold and naked room—she , who was accustomed to stoves which heated the house from the hall to the boudoir ; she had not even one little flower—she whose apartment had been a conservatory of costly exotics .
I have , therefore , chosen this drawing-room , where you see , smiling and happy in their magnificent frames , your portrait , mine , my mother ’ s , and all sorts of rural landscapes and touching pastorals .
I have already successfully conducted several public prosecutions , and brought the offenders to merited punishment .
I would have saved Madame de Saint-Méran , if science could have done it ; but she is dead and my duty regards the living .
We shall require it. ” “ Yes , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ we must not leave this person the slightest pretext for behaving badly , which , with all due respect , I fancy he is anxious still to do. ” This new attack made no impression on Mordaunt .
There could be no doubt that behind this little window , which threw forth such friendly beams , the pretty Mme .
Maximilian—Emmanuel—if we do but discover him , he must believe in the gratitude of the heart ! ” Monte Cristo felt tears start into his eyes , and he again walked hastily up and down the room .
Redistribution is subject to the trademark license , especially commercial redistribution .
Te Deum for the Victory of Lens .
“ Do you fear any approaching evil ?
“ Come , come ! ” said Milady , lifting hers to her mouth , “ do as I do. ” But at the moment the glass touched her lips , her hand remained suspended ; she heard something on the road which sounded like the rattling of a distant gallop .
“ This Rochefort , ” cried Porthos , “ if I were the esquire of poor Chalais , should pass a minute or two very uncomfortably with me. ” “ And you—you would pass rather a sad quarter-hour with the Red Duke , ” replied Aramis .
There D ’ Artagnan was asleep upon a bench .
“ What have you done with Monsieur de Bruy ?
Truly , it is I who am mad , and you prove to me that passion blinds the most well-meaning .
Nevertheless , one thing afforded him inward consolation ; it was expected by everybody that the campaign would be a severe one .
Take in the studding-sails and stow the flying jib. ’ It was time ; the squall was on us , and the vessel began to heel .
Faria , as we have said , without having recovered the use of his hand and foot , had regained all the clearness of his understanding , and had gradually , besides the moral instructions we have detailed , taught his youthful companion the patient and sublime duty of a prisoner , who learns to make something from nothing .
This was not enough—he must now learn to write .
How I worked , how I hoped , how I struck every piece of turf , thinking to find some resistance to my spade !
The countess left the arm of Monte Cristo , and gathered a bunch of Muscatel grapes .
“ These undertakings do not suit me , as you know , Aramis. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because it is taking people unawares. ” “ Really , Athos , you would make a singular general .
There are twenty-five bottles of it left ; all the rest were broken by my fall .
At this moment a strange noise , like the unloading of a cart , and followed by a cry of pain , was heard beneath the window .
The count hastily descended , presented himself at the already opened carriage door , and held out his hand to a young woman , completely enveloped in a green silk mantle heavily embroidered with gold .
What interest have they in your death ?
Only he is not quite sure about the women , for they did not come in until after he had taken hashish , so that what he took for women might have been simply a row of statues. ” The two young men looked at Morcerf as if to say , — “ Are you mad , or are you laughing at us ? ” “ And I also , ” said Morrel thoughtfully , “ have heard something like this from an old sailor named Penelon. ” “ Ah , ” cried Albert , “ it is very lucky that M. Morrel comes to aid me ; you are vexed , are you not , that he thus gives a clew to the labyrinth ? ” “ My dear Albert , ” said Debray , “ what you tell us is so extraordinary. ” “ Ah , because your ambassadors and your consuls do not tell you of them—they have no time .
“ Stand on one side , D ’ Artagnan , stand on one side , ” cried Athos .
Many curious faces had already appeared at the windows and the people attracted to the end of the street began to run , first men , then groups , and then a crowd of people ; hearing cries and seeing a chariot they could not understand it ; but Friquet sprang from the entresol on to the top of the carriage .
Once outside , he and Planchet set off as fast as they could ; and by making a long detour avoided the wood and reentered the city by another gate .
The marshal recognized him and hastened to meet him .
MM .
The next moment the very planks of the scaffold creaked with the weight of an advancing procession , and the eager faces of the spectators confirmed what a last hope at the bottom of his heart had prevented him till then believing .
“ Here , your excellency , ” said Peppino , taking the fowl from the young bandit and placing it on the worm-eaten table , which with the stool and the goat-skin bed formed the entire furniture of the cell .
When the chill of the night had driven away the guests from the gardens , and the gates of the villa were closed on them for the _festa_ in-doors , he took Teresa quite away , and as he left her at her home , he said : “ ‘ Teresa , what were you thinking of as you danced opposite the young Countess of San-Felice ? ’ “ ‘ I thought , ’ replied the young girl , with all the frankness of her nature , ‘ that I would give half my life for a costume such as she wore. ’ “ ‘ And what said your cavalier to you ? ’ “ ‘ He said it only depended on myself to have it , and I had only one word to say. ’ “ ‘ He was right , ’ said Luigi .
Bicarat was a Gascon , as D ’ Artagnan was ; he turned a deaf ear , and contented himself with laughing , and between two parries finding time to point to a spot of earth with his sword , “ Here , ” cried he , parodying a verse of the Bible , “ here will Bicarat die ; for I only am left , and they seek my life. ” “ But there are four against you ; leave off , I command you. ” “ Ah , if you command me , that ’ s another thing , ” said Bicarat .
A single look at Milady apprised him of all that was passing in her mind .
Porthos could hardly keep his countenance .
“ Thanks , ” said the poor abbé , shivering as though his veins were filled with ice .
He had to contend against a strong wrist , but his agility was superior to all force .
“ Sire , ” said the queen , “ I can send for them to the Louvre , where they are , and thus your Majesty ’ s wishes will be complied with. ” “ Do so , madame , do so , and that at once ; for within an hour the ballet will commence. ” The queen bent in token of submission , and followed the ladies who were to conduct her to her room .
This time the lieutenant did not wait for the opposite party to speak .
“ Well , sir , I am waiting with impatience to hear what you wish to say to me. ” “ And I , madame , ” replied Athos , “ am looking with admiration. ” “ Sir , ” said Madame de Chevreuse , “ you must excuse me , but I long to know to whom I am talking .
“ Do you wish to see her ? ” Noirtier again made an affirmative sign .
“ Oh !
“ Who rang ? ” asked Valentine .
“ I have remarked also another thing , ” said Athos , “ which is , that in firing off your pistol you hold your arm too far outstretched .
The peasant took off his hat on hearing this revered name .
“ I know it well , so take Grimaud. ” “ Take Mousqueton. ” “ Take Bazin. ” “ Take Planchet .
“ Of what companion are you speaking , dear Constance ? ” “ Of her whose carriage was at the gate ; of a woman who calls herself your friend ; of a woman to whom you have told everything. ” “ Her name , her name ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ Very true , ” replied the Gascon , “ but I always run away from compliments .
“ _Pardieu ! _ ” said Athos , “ it was hardly worth while to distribute ourselves for twenty fellows armed with pickaxes , mattocks , and shovels .
“ You are speaking , you scoundrel ! ” said Athos , rising upon his elbow , and transfixing Grimaud with his flaming look .
You must yourself have remarked how much you have been considered in all the circumstances. ” D ’ Artagnan bowed with respect .
It was like a besieged town .
“ Joy , joy—the sum is large ! ” “ Five or six millions , is it not ? ” “ Yes , you know the amount. ” “ On the receipt of the Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ Why , how came you to be so well acquainted with all this ? ” “ I told you we were informed beforehand. ” “ Then why do you apply to me ? ” “ That I may be sure I have the right man. ” “ Yes , it is indeed he .
They merit richly that piece of attention on your part. ” “ The advice is good , monsieur , and tomorrow I will set out. ” “ Tomorrow !
“ I told you , on the contrary— ” “ Take away the prisoner , ” said the commissary to the two guards .
Albert de Morcerf is no coward ! ” said Monte Cristo .
Ha !
never !
It does not appear to be very clean in the crossroads. ” D ’ Artagnan glanced down at his boots , all covered with mud ; but that same glance fell upon the shoes and stockings of the mercer , and it might have been said they had been dipped in the same mud heap .
Oh , if so , punish me as you will ; but do not—do not speak to me in tones and manner so formal and constrained. ” “ Haydée , ” replied the count , “ you know that you are now in France , and are free. ” “ Free to do what ? ” asked the young girl .
why , really , one would say that you four were anthropaphagi !
Ten minutes afterwards Villefort reached his hotel , ordered horses to be ready in two hours , and asked to have his breakfast brought to him .
ho ! ” replied Aramis .
I will not acknowledge a crime in my house ; for when crime enters a dwelling , it is like death—it does not come alone. ’ Listen .
Morcerf asked leave to retire ; he had to collect the documents he had long been preparing against this storm , which his sagacity had foreseen .
He followed M. d ’ Épinay , saw him enter , afterwards go out , and then re-enter with Albert and Château-Renaud .
This immediately recalled to D ’ Artagnan ’ s mind the handkerchief which he had found at the feet of Mme .
Inform this dear friend that he may remain within , that I shall go and see him immediately. ” “ Sir , I obey with pleasure , if her majesty will permit me to depart. ” “ Go , Monsieur de Bragelonne , ” said the queen , “ and rest assured of our affection. ” Raoul bent respectfully before the two princesses , and bowing to De Winter , departed .
I will allow you to make me hateful , but I will prevent your rendering me ridiculous , and , above all , I forbid you to ruin me. ” The baroness had been tolerably composed until the name of Villefort had been pronounced ; but then she became pale , and , rising , as if touched by a spring , she stretched out her hands as though conjuring an apparition ; she then took two or three steps towards her husband , as though to tear the secret from him , of which he was ignorant , or which he withheld from some odious calculation , —odious , as all his calculations were .
He had been struck to the heart by a frightful recollection—the conversation he had heard between the doctor and Villefort the night of Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s death , recurred to him ; these symptoms , to a less alarming extent , were the same which had preceded the death of Barrois .
The aperture was already sufficiently large for him to enter , but by waiting , he could still cling to hope , and retard the certainty of deception .
“ Yes , he has a wife , who through everything has behaved like an angel ; he has a daughter , who was about to marry the man she loved , but whose family now will not allow him to wed the daughter of a ruined man ; he has , besides , a son , a lieutenant in the army ; and , as you may suppose , all this , instead of lessening , only augments his sorrows .
They were , therefore , somewhat surprised to meet altogether at the door of the Hermitage , Athos starting out from the Pont Neuf , Porthos by the Rue de la Roule , D ’ Artagnan by the Rue des Fosse Saint Germain l ’ Auxerrois , and Aramis by the Rue de Bethisy .
“ You will appear at this ball ? ” “ Yes. ” “ With those studs ? ” “ Yes. ” The queen ’ s paleness , if possible , increased ; the king perceived it , and enjoyed it with that cold cruelty which was one of the worst sides of his character .
“ There is no situation , however terrible it may be , which can authorize a creature of God to inflict death upon himself .
“ You have told me the truth , my gentlemen , ” said he , addressing the Musketeers , “ and it will not be my fault if our encounter this evening be not advantageous to you .
“ No , I slept , as I generally do when I am weary without having the courage to amuse myself , or when I am hungry without feeling inclined to eat. ” “ But you can sleep when you please , monsieur ? ” said Morrel .
It is natural enough ; this strange chain of domestic afflictions , followed by the no less strange death of his daughter—— ” “ Strange ?
With this animal , which he called Pistache , he was often shut up for hours alone , superintending , as every one supposed , its education .
The richest Turkey carpets covered the floor , and the softest and most inviting couches , easy-chairs , and sofas , offered their high-piled and yielding cushions to such as desired repose or refreshment .
Then the hand was withdrawn , leaving in his an object which he perceived to be a ring .
More than once the king had been humiliated by the cardinal , whose police , without having yet attained the perfection of the modern police , were excellent , being better informed than himself , even upon what was going on in his own household .
“ You can come , ” he said , and led them back to Noirtier .
“ Tell him I will come when I leave my dear grandmamma , ” she replied , feeling , with true delicacy , that the person to whom she could be of the most service just then was Madame de Saint-Méran .
“ No .
“ Accomplish the orders of Lord de Winter , ” said Felton , with a gloomy smile .
You have seduced this young girl ; you have outraged , defiled her .
But does your Grace mean to give me the studs without the casket ? ” “ The casket would encumber you .
“ You are the offended party , count. ” “ Doubtless ; what does that imply ? ” “ That you will fire first. ” “ I fire first ? ” “ Oh , I obtained , or rather claimed that ; we had conceded enough for them to yield us that. ” “ And at what distance ? ” “ Twenty paces. ” A smile of terrible import passed over the count ’ s lips .
I did not wish to contradict them ; besides , I might be deceived. ” “ Monsieur , you insult the majesty of justice. ” “ Not at all , ” said Athos , calmly .
“ Shall I help you , madame ? ” asked Athos .
Could you allow me a few words in private. ” “ What did I tell you ? ” said the governor .
I yet feel his warm tears on my face , and his were not the only tears shed , for many who witnessed our meeting wept also. ” Monte Cristo gently smiled and said , — “ I was there ; ” at the same time pointing to the corner of a street .
Should I ever get out of prison and find in all Italy a printer courageous enough to publish what I have composed , my literary reputation is forever secured. ” “ I see , ” answered Dantès .
But here are your bonds ; pay me differently ; ” and he held the bonds towards Danglars , who seized them like a vulture extending its claws to withhold the food that is being wrested from its grasp .
Have you a heart ?
D ’ Artagnan at the moment of quitting Milady felt only the liveliest regret at the parting ; and as they addressed each other in a reciprocally passionate adieu , another interview was arranged for the following week .
“ Yes , devotion ; for that is , I believe , the phrase for hopeful ambition. ” And Villefort ’ s father extended his hand to the bell-rope , to summon the servant whom his son had not called .
The committee decided to hear the letter ; the count was thoughtful and silent .
Chapter XXXIV .
There was some surprise , however , that , as he was with his face to the enemy , he should have received a ball between his shoulders .
Grimaud looked after him , and when the door was closed he drew out of his pocket a pencil and a sheet of paper .
“ Do not be intimidated .
“ Fix your own hour for tomorrow , and my cashier shall call on you with a check for eighty thousand francs. ” “ At ten o ’ clock then , if you please ; I should like it early , as I am going into the country tomorrow. ” “ Very well , at ten o ’ clock ; you are still at the Hôtel des Princes ? ” “ Yes. ” The following morning , with the banker ’ s usual punctuality , the eighty thousand francs were placed in the young man ’ s hands , as he was on the point of starting , after having left two hundred francs for Caderousse .
“ His name , tell it me ! ” “ Then in spite of my cries , in spite of my resistance—for I began to comprehend that there was a question of something worse than death—the executioner seized me , threw me on the floor , fastened me with his bonds , and suffocated by sobs , almost without sense , invoking God , who did not listen to me , I uttered all at once a frightful cry of pain and shame .
So much the better , Duke , so much the better , ” said the king , advancing toward the door .
“ Of all that passed in that sleep , or the time which glided away while it lasted , I have no remembrance .
On perceiving the cavaliers , D ’ Artagnan had stopped and charged his pistol afresh ; besides , his horse , he found , had a carbine on the bow of the saddle .
What was all that to Scarron ?
Chapter XVII .
“ But the lady ? ” asked Porthos .
The drawing-rooms were decorated with the rarest pictures by the old masters , the boudoirs hung with draperies from China , of fanciful colors , fantastic design , and wonderful texture .
Desrues was , however , I must confess , more skilful. ” “ What would you have , sir ? ” said the lady , laughing ; “ we do what we can .
“ And that being conducted to the scaffold , ” resumed the queen— “ oh , my lord !
“ Madame , ” said Albert , “ allow me to present to you M. Maximilian Morrel , captain of Spahis , one of our best , and , above all , of our bravest officers. ” “ I have already had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman at Auteuil , at the house of the Count of Monte Cristo , ” replied Madame de Villefort , turning away with marked coldness of manner .
Behind the grating of the room into which Andrea had been led , he saw , while his eyes dilated with surprise , the dark and intelligent face of M. Bertuccio , who was also gazing with sad astonishment upon the iron bars , the bolted doors , and the shadow which moved behind the other grating .
The ante-rooms were still full of soldiers , the passages still lined by guards .
Why didst thou take it ? ” “ Yes—why ? ” asked La Ramee .
“ I will take charge of the inside one .
“ Who is this young person , M. de Morcerf ? ” inquired Eugénie ; “ does anybody know ? ” “ Mademoiselle , ” said Albert , replying to this direct appeal , “ I can give you very exact information on that subject , as well as on most points relative to the mysterious person of whom we are now conversing—the young woman is a Greek. ” “ So I should suppose by her dress ; if you know no more than that , everyone here is as well-informed as yourself. ” “ I am extremely sorry you find me so ignorant a _cicerone_ , ” replied Morcerf , “ but I am reluctantly obliged to confess , I have nothing further to communicate—yes , stay , I do know one thing more , namely , that she is a musician , for one day when I chanced to be breakfasting with the count , I heard the sound of a guzla—it is impossible that it could have been touched by any other finger than her own. ” “ Then your count entertains visitors , does he ? ” asked Madame Danglars .
Bonacieux , with a half-smile which was not exempt from a tinge of impatience .
Not the least noise was to be heard ; it might be imagined that he was a hundred miles from the capital .
20157m Chapter 35 .
But presently the exempt ’ s face suddenly brightened .
Don Quixote took windmills for giants , and sheep for armies ; D ’ Artagnan took every smile for an insult , and every look as a provocation—whence it resulted that from Tarbes to Meung his fist was constantly doubled , or his hand on the hilt of his sword ; and yet the fist did not descend upon any jaw , nor did the sword issue from its scabbard .
“ I saw Madame de Saint-Méran only last year at Marseilles , when I was coming back from Algiers , ” said Château-Renaud ; “ she looked like a woman destined to live to be a hundred years old , from her apparent sound health and great activity of mind and body .
This coldness toward the only interests that occupied her mind terrified Milady , whose questions became more pressing .
Bonacieux looked earnestly at the young man .
Cries were soon heard , and then moans , which someone appeared to be endeavoring to stifle .
M. de Villefort ’ s communications on the subject were very limited and concise ; he told her , in fact , that an explanation had taken place between M. Noirtier , M. d ’ Épinay , and himself , and that the marriage of Valentine and Franz would consequently be broken off .
do you not see your friends , or are you too proud to speak to them ? ” “ No , my dear fellow ! ” replied Dantès , “ I am not proud , but I am happy , and happiness blinds , I think , more than pride. ” “ Ah , very well , that ’ s an explanation ! ” said Caderousse .
They were parting to meet again when it pleased God , and if it pleased God .
I spent perhaps an hour in coming from the yard to this place ; then my strength gave out and I fainted again. ” “ And now how are you feeling ? ” “ Very ill , ” replied the wounded man .
“ What dreadful sufferings ! ” said Julie , remembering Valentine , but whom , with a delicacy natural to women , she did not name before her brother .
The duke approached the altar , knelt as a priest might have done before a crucifix , and opened the casket .
From that time I looked upon this fortune as something confided to me for a particular purpose .
“ I ’ faith , yes , ” said Athos , “ for I am hungry. ” “ Look out for the black fowls ! ” cried Aramis .
Sit down , Morrel , and wait. ” Morrel obeyed ; the count arose , and unlocking a closet with a key suspended from his gold chain , took from it a little silver casket , beautifully carved and chased , the corners of which represented four bending figures , similar to the Caryatides , the forms of women , symbols of the angels aspiring to heaven .
“ Consider , ” said Aramis , “ if you admit divine justice and its participation in the things of this world , that woman was punished by the will of heaven .
The little boat bounded over the waves like a nut-shell .
But scarcely were they out of the room before they were made aware of the cause of this noise .
It would be , no doubt , _parbleu_ , if we write to Lord de Winter about affairs of vast importance , of the horrors of the cardinal— ” “ Speak lower ! ” said Athos .
“ If you had been ten years engaged in war , as Grimaud and I have been , my dear Blaisois , you would know the difference there is between the goods of others and the goods of enemies .
“ I wish to visit in person the outposts which surround the Palais Royal ; do you suppose that there is any danger in so doing ? ” “ Danger , my lord ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan with a look of astonishment , “ what danger ? ” “ I am told that there is a general insurrection. ” “ The uniform of the king ’ s musketeers carries a certain respect with it , and even if that were not the case I would engage with four of my men to put to flight a hundred of these clowns. ” “ Did you witness the injury sustained by Comminges ? ” “ Monsieur de Comminges is in the guards and not in the musketeers—— ” “ Which means , I suppose , that the musketeers are better soldiers than the guards. ” The cardinal smiled as he spoke .
“ La Carconte , on the contrary , rose , and going with a firm step towards the door , opened it , saying , as she did so : “ ‘ Come in , dear M. Joannes. ’ “ ‘ _Ma foi_ , ’ said the jeweller , drenched with rain , ‘ I am not destined to return to Beaucaire tonight .
“ Oh , ” he exclaimed , running furiously and tearing his hair— “ Oh , who will deliver me from this man ?
Would you like such a post ?
Scarron turned around toward him and came to meet him in his chair .
He assumed his costume , and fastened on the mask that scarcely equalled the pallor of his own face .
D ’ Artagnan was secretly touched with remorse , not at inducing Porthos to enter into schemes in which his life and fortune would be in jeopardy , for Porthos , in the title of baron , had his object and reward ; but poor Mousqueton , whose only wish was to be called Mouston—was it not cruel to snatch him from the delightful state of peace and plenty in which he was ?
Charles Stuart had asked that Bishop Juxon might be permitted to visit him .
A large wound , extending from the temple to the mouth , was bleeding profusely .
oh , no , ” he exclaimed— “ not die now , after having lived and suffered so long and so much !
I possessed a thousand francs .
Lend me your back—but don ’ t let the cardinal go. ” Porthos lent him his back and D ’ Artagnan was soon on the summit of the wall , where he seated himself .
“ Do you understand that , my dear Franz—no horses ? ” he said , “ but can ’ t we have post-horses ? ” “ They have been all hired this fortnight , and there are none left but those absolutely requisite for posting. ” “ What are we to say to this ? ” asked Franz .
At Drake ’ s or Aaron ’ s one pays twenty-five lire for common days , and thirty or thirty-five lire a day more for Sundays and feast days ; add five lire a day more for extras , that will make forty , and there ’ s an end of it. ” “ I am afraid if we offer them double that we shall not procure a carriage. ” “ Then they must put horses to mine .
All the world has not the secret of the Medicis or the Borgias. ” “ Now , ” replied the count , shrugging his shoulders , “ shall I tell you the cause of all these stupidities ?
“ You hear , madame , ” said the king , who enjoyed the embarrassment to its full extent , but without guessing the cause .
By heavens !
She turned toward the wall to smile—for there was in this smile such an expression of triumph that this smile alone would have betrayed her .
had just granted to him with his estate of Épinay .
As Edmond passed the door on the fourth floor , he paused to inquire whether Caderousse the tailor still dwelt there ; but he received for reply , that the person in question had got into difficulties , and at the present time kept a small inn on the route from Bellegarde to Beaucaire .
My father , ” said Haydée , raising her head , “ was that illustrious man known in Europe under the name of Ali Tepelini , pasha of Yanina , and before whom Turkey trembled. ” Albert , without knowing why , started on hearing these words pronounced with such a haughty and dignified accent ; it appeared to him as if there was something supernaturally gloomy and terrible in the expression which gleamed from the brilliant eyes of Haydée at this moment ; she appeared like a Pythoness evoking a spectre , as she recalled to his mind the remembrance of the fearful death of this man , to the news of which all Europe had listened with horror .
But it is not selfishness alone that makes me thus in haste ; I must go to Paris. ” “ Ah , really ? —to Paris !
Was Felton , suspected by the baron , about to fail her at the decisive moment ?
Oh , man , man—race of crocodiles , ” cried the count , extending his clenched hands towards the crowd , “ how well do I recognize you there , and that at all times you are worthy of yourselves ! ” Meanwhile Andrea and the two executioners were struggling on the ground , and he kept exclaiming , “ He ought to die ! —he shall die ! —I will not die alone ! ” “ Look , look , ” cried the count , seizing the young men ’ s hands ; “ look , for on my soul it is curious .
The spectators saw the muskets leveled at them , and divided between fear and curiosity , remained noisy and excited .
“ Ah , you scoundrel ! ” he said to the sergeant , “ I believe you are impudent to me !
Then M. de Tréville made a sign with his hand , and all retired except D ’ Artagnan , who did not forget that he had an audience , and with the tenacity of a Gascon remained in his place .
The robust Scotchman , accustomed to the snows of his native hills , had stretched himself against a post , and like a fallen statue , insensible to the inclemency of the weather , had allowed the snow to cover him .
Finally , Farmer Louis sold them eighty trusses , making in all four hundred and thirty .
Now , Gascons are always poor , are they not ? ” “ Sire , I can assert that they have hitherto discovered no gold mines in their mountains ; though the Lord owes them this miracle in recompense for the manner in which they supported the pretensions of the king your father. ” “ Which is to say that the Gascons made a king of me , myself , seeing that I am my father ’ s son , is it not , Tréville ?
“ My lord , ” said Raoul , blushing , “ might examine the Spanish prisoner. ” “ Have you a Spanish prisoner ? ” cried the prince .
Her face is very pale , and I have listened in vain ; I do not hear her breathe. ” “ You are right , ” said Felton , after having looked at Milady from the spot on which he stood without moving a step toward her .
Then he drew from his waistcoat-pocket the little emerald box , raised the golden lid , and took from it a pastille about the size of a pea , which he placed in her hand .
Albert placed it in his button-hole , and the carriage went triumphantly on .
The shade of Richelieu was Mazarin .
You see that I can not , like you , for instance , settle on any fixed plan. ” “ Thou liest , subtile one , ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself .
They promised , indeed , to negotiate with the pope for a cardinal ’ s hat for him ; but he knew how little reliance should be placed on such promises , made by the queen and Mazarin .
There he saw a lengthy chain of people gliding under the walls .
“ Sacrebleu !
“ Do you regret them ? ” asked Morrel , with his open laugh .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” it cried .
“ Now , ” said Felton , “ we are safe. ” Milady breathed a deep sigh and fainted .
You need not look for it ; I do not want it , ” said the old man .
At twelve this man was replaced by another functionary , and Danglars , wishing to catch sight of his new guardian , approached the door again .
“ Repeat it !
Oh , no , he was afraid to encounter him face to face. ” “ I do not condemn you , Albert ; I only restrain you .
You do not know your own good fortune ! ” “ And what would you do , my dear diplomatist , ” replied Morcerf , with a slight degree of irony in his voice , “ if you did nothing ?
Most certainly , but for the prompt assistance of your intrepid servant , this dear child and myself must both have perished. ” “ Indeed , I still shudder at the fearful danger you were placed in. ” “ I trust you will allow me to recompense worthily the devotion of your man. ” “ I beseech you , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo “ not to spoil Ali , either by too great praise or rewards .
Planchet was armed with his musketoon and a pistol .
D ’ Artagnan , remember this !
“ Well , then , speak ! ” “ That which I have to say of her can only be heard by yourself , my Lord ! ” “ Leave us , Patrick , ” said Buckingham ; “ but remain within sound of the bell .
“ What are you saying , doctor ? ” he exclaimed , raising his hands to heaven .
“ ‘ “ Make no noise , sir , unless you wish me to consider you as one of the men of whom you spoke just now as cowards , who take their weakness for a shield .
Why should we not imagine this the apartment of an honest mother ?
Patience !
They sailed ; Edmond was again cleaving the azure sea which had been the first horizon of his youth , and which he had so often dreamed of in prison .
Gimblou , another bottle. ” The bottle was brought with a promptness which showed the degree of consideration D ’ Artagnan enjoyed in the establishment .
“ Valentine , Valentine ! ” he mentally ejaculated ; but his lips uttered no sound , and as though all his strength were centred in that internal emotion , he sighed and closed his eyes .
About seven o ’ clock in the morning they set out .
You are questioning me like a king ’ s attorney .
The next day , Athos , leaning out of his window , which looked upon the most populous part of the city , heard the Act of Parliament , which summoned the ex-king , Charles I. , to the bar , publicly cried .
The four friends appeared to be entire strangers to one another and indifferent to the precautions taken for guarding the king .
“ _Dentro la testa_ , ” replied the same voice , with the same menacing accent .
No one would have thought in looking at this old , weather-beaten , floral-decked tower ( which might be likened to an elderly dame dressed up to receive her grandchildren at a birthday feast ) that it would have been capable of telling strange things , if , —in addition to the menacing ears which the proverb says all walls are provided with , —it had also a voice .
The next morning , on awaking , Paris seemed to be startled at her own appearance .
“ Yes , ” said the duke , “ but take care , my dear La Ramee , for I propose to beat you badly. ” La Ramee went out .
“ What do you think of our lover ? ” said he .
“ Oh , it must not be called suffering ; I feel a general uneasiness , that is all .
“ To what do you allude , monsieur ? ” said Danglars ; as if he were trying in vain to guess at the possible meaning of the general ’ s words .
Gracious heavens ; another idea presents itself—what if they should be—— ” His hair stood on end .
An imperceptible smile of triumph was expressed on the lips of the procureur .
Then he let his head sink upon his two hands , while D ’ Artagnan stood before him , stupefied .
M. d ’ Épinay , to whom I had promised the interest of this sum , shall receive it , even if I endure the most cruel privations. ” “ However , ” said Madame de Villefort , returning to the one idea which incessantly occupied her mind , “ perhaps it would be better to explain this unlucky affair to M. d ’ Épinay , in order to give him the opportunity of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of Mademoiselle de Villefort. ” “ Ah , that would be a great pity , ” said Villefort .
With a single glance Villefort ’ s eye ran through the room .
His first care on entering it was to lock up in an old bureau with a new lock his bag of money , and then as soon as supper was ready he sent away the waiter who brought it up and sat down to table .
“ I am ready , ” said he .
They had expected resistance , they had expected to be thwarted , to have to force the gates , to overturn the guards .
“ The young man you speak of , ” said Villefort abruptly , “ is a great criminal , and I can do nothing for him , mademoiselle. ” Mercédès burst into tears , and , as Villefort strove to pass her , again addressed him .
For the moment she wished nothing better .
“ Now he is gone , it is your turn to get out , ” said Mme .
His love , which he believed to be extinct but which was only asleep , awoke again in his heart .
“ Pray , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , after a minute , “ either take off that ring or turn the mounting inside ; it recalls such cruel recollections that I shall have no head to converse with you .
Her countenance , with surprising mobility , had recovered its gracious expression ; but some little red spots on her handkerchief indicated that she had bitten her lips till the blood came .
Let us sit down to supper .
the thing is simple enough .
How did the honor or disgrace of M. de Morcerf affect me ?
Stop a minute—ah , this is it : ‘ Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes , ’ which means , ‘ Beware of the enemy who makes you presents. ” “ This diamond does not come from an enemy , monsieur , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ it comes from the queen. ” “ From the queen !
“ And do you comprehend , Grimaud ? ” said Aramis .
When were you here ? ” “ I was brought up here. ” “ Truly ? ” “ It is worth something , you see , to have been brought up somewhere. ” “ You will wait for me , then ? ” “ Let me reflect a little !
Two Angelic Faces .
“ Ah , yes , ” said the count ; “ that was the reason of your running away from us. ” “ Yes. ” “ How is King Otho getting on ? ” asked Albert in the most sprightly tone .
Then taking a paper out of his pocket , he unfolded it slowly .
All the day , all the next night passed away without my seeing him again .
He had read in the countenances of Luigi and Teresa their steadfast resolution not to surrender him , and he drew from his pocket a purse full of gold , which he offered to them .
Scarcely , however , had they gone a quarter of a league when , having killed a kid , he begged Jacopo to take it to his comrades , and request them to cook it , and when ready to let him know by firing a gun .
But Felton did not give him time to draw it .
When you arrive at the first step of the church of San Giacomo , be sure to fasten a knot of rose-colored ribbons to the shoulder of your harlequin costume , in order that you may be recognized .
“ Yes , my lord , and from pure devotion to the cause , for Monsieur de Bracieux is rich. ” “ Rich ! ” said Mazarin , whom that single word always inspired with a great respect .
Bonacieux opened her eyes under the kisses of D ’ Artagnan .
The ceremony of reception over , the four friends were soon in one another ’ s arms .
he is leaving them ! ” “ They are beating the rappel ! ” cried Chatillon ; “ we must discover what is going on. ” In fact , they saw the soldiers running to their arms ; the trumpets sounded ; the drums beat ; the Duc de Beaufort drew his sword .
His head , with piercing eyes , a straight nose , a chin cut like that of Brutus , had altogether an indefinable character of grandeur and grace .
“ Lord Winter is killed , then ? ” inquired D ’ Artagnan , fixing his eyes on the corpse .
It appears to me you make dull jokes , my dear , ” said Porthos .
1.B .
We can talk of it afterward. ” Then seeing that the musketeers had cleared the Quai from the Pont Neuf to the Quai Saint Michael , he raised his sword for them to double their speed .
You heard a private conversation respecting Spanish affairs—on the expulsion of Don Carlos .
“ I have told you that I am prepared for anything. ” “ The two travelers knocked at the door .
He found the troop in the glade , supping off the provisions exacted as contributions from the peasants ; but his eye vainly sought Rita and Cucumetto among them .
Besides , you forget that I have a ring likewise. ” “ To which you attach more value , it seems , than I do to mine ; at least , I have thought so. ” “ Yes , for in any extreme circumstance it might not only extricate us from some great embarrassment , but even a great danger .
0107m Chapter 8 .
An intervening elevation of land hid the light .
Monte Cristo slowly left the house and turned towards the quay .
All very fine , my lord , but at the very first hint you give of such a thing I will strangle you and become Frondist .
It is true that she had not , perhaps , been scrupulously faithful to him , but she had remembered him ; that was something .
Pardon me , doctor , these worldly ideas ; were you a priest I should not dare tell you that , but you are a man , and you know mankind .
This movement was observed by Mordaunt .
50249m Danglars suddenly felt a strong inclination to see the person who kept watch over him .
To attain such a point , the blood must be heated to thirty-six degrees , the pulse be , at least , at ninety , and the feelings excited beyond the ordinary limit .
“ I shrink before nothing but impossibilities. ” “ Nothing is impossible , ” replied Milady , “ to true love. ” “ Nothing , madame ? ” “ Nothing , ” replied Milady .
At last , with a horrible splash , he darted like an arrow into the ice-cold water , and as he did so he uttered a shrill cry , stifled in a moment by his immersion beneath the waves .
“ Luigi was jealous !
“ Well , take your hat and gloves , ” returned Monte Cristo .
D ’ Artagnan did the same , with a little more concern , however , for the noble creatures , whose merits he fully appreciated ; but he had the satisfaction of seeing three or four grooms run from the kitchens and the stables , and busy themselves with the steeds .
But pardon me , are you free ?
This traveling dress will serve to show the cardinal my haste to obey his commands. ” They set out on Vulcan and Bayard , followed by Mousqueton on Phoebus , and arrived at the Palais Royal at about a quarter to seven .
“ Oh , I saw the snare , and I answered you would be quite in despair on your return .
“ I was so situated as to hear and see everything , ” he answered .
Death is about to return to the tomb , the phantom to retire in darkness. ” “ What do you say , Edmond ? ” “ I say , since you command me , Mercédès , I must die. ” “ Die ?
You have ill understood , wrongly interpreted ; I did not mean to say— ” “ Silence , silence ! ” cried the duke .
“ If we were to see you fighting , I can assure you that we would make no effort to prevent you .
At this moment Comminges rushed into the room .
The island was familiar to the crew of _La Jeune Amélie_ , —it was one of her regular haunts .
“ Come ! ” said he .
A gentleman , in his opinion—and according to D ’ Artagnan ’ s portrait of him , the stranger must be a gentleman—would be incapable of the baseness of stealing a letter .
Suspicion instantly seized me .
“ Triple ass ! ” said Athos , rising ; but he sank down again immediately .
Château-Renaud rented a stall beside his own , while Beauchamp , as a journalist , had unlimited range all over the theatre .
Of the important cities given up by Henry IV .
remember the soldiers and sentinels who guard these doors .
Athos pinched Aramis ’ s hand .
The term for which Edmond had engaged to serve on board _La Jeune Amélie_ having expired , Dantès took leave of the captain , who at first tried all his powers of persuasion to induce him to remain as one of the crew , but having been told the history of the legacy , he ceased to importune him further .
This somnambulism of drunkenness had something frightful in it .
“ The brand of England ! —it would be necessary to prove what tribunal had imposed it on me , and I could have made a public appeal to all the tribunals of the kingdom ; but the brand of France ! —oh , by that , by _that_ I was branded indeed ! ” This was too much for Felton .
D ’ Artagnan put his forty pistoles into his pocket without any scruple—on the contrary , thanking his Majesty greatly .
The Catalan watched him until Caderousse , almost overcome by this fresh assault on his senses , rested , or rather dropped , his glass upon the table .
And you , Porthos ? ” “ Faith !
“ What does all this mean ? ” asked Aramis .
“ Sir , ” said Athos , turning to Comminges and giving him politely his sword by the hilt , “ here is my sword ; have the kindness to keep it safely for me until I quit my prison .
“ You were in a cloister , ” said the executioner , “ and you left it to ruin my brother. ” Milady uttered a cry of terror and sank upon her knees .
Haydée ’ s learned reference is to the behavior of an actor in the Dionysian festivals.—Ed .
In hôtels that do not flourish , everything is in confusion , and the traveler is a victim to the embarrassments of his host .
As we have said , the inspector , from discretion , and that he might not disturb the Abbé Faria ’ s pupil in his researches , had seated himself in a corner , and was reading _Le Drapeau Blanc_ .
Go ; I will reflect. ” Gondy looked at Mazarin , astonished , and Mazarin approached the queen to speak to her , but at this moment a frightful tumult arose from the square of the Palais Royal .
“ I have distrusted God ; I could the more easily distrust you .
“ ‘ Come , come—give it to me !
“ Yes , ” said Albert , “ but this has nothing to do with the existence of the Count of Monte Cristo. ” “ _Pardieu ! _ everyone exists. ” “ Doubtless , but not in the same way ; everyone has not black slaves , a princely retinue , an arsenal of weapons that would do credit to an Arabian fortress , horses that cost six thousand francs apiece , and Greek mistresses. ” “ Have you seen the Greek mistress ? ” “ I have both seen and heard her .
“ Come , count , ” said Raoul , who seemed instinctively to dislike the vicinity of the Augustine ; “ come , I feel ill here , ” and the two young men spurred on .
Mercédès is not yet your wife .
Say when shall it be ?
However , it does not signify ; he has a letter of credit on me , so I must see him when he requires his money. ” Then , throwing himself back in his carriage , Danglars called out to his coachman , in a voice that might be heard across the road , “ To the Chamber of Deputies. ” Apprised in time of the visit paid him , Monte Cristo had , from behind the blinds of his pavilion , as minutely observed the baron , by means of an excellent lorgnette , as Danglars himself had scrutinized the house , garden , and servants .
The noise of their retreating footsteps and the murmur of their voices soon died away .
Eh ?
You had your secret and we had ours ; we didn ’ t exchange them .
The letters were long—the four pages were covered with closely written words .
“ There can be no longer any doubt but that it is himself , ” said he .
As to Dantès , he had passed it on his voyage to and from the Levant , but never touched at it .
He had fainted .
The Vendetta At what point shall I begin my story , your excellency ? ” asked Bertuccio .
“ I had well concerted my plans , ” pursued Aramis ; “ the coadjutor gave me sixty men ; twenty guard the walls of the park , twenty the road from Rueil to Saint Germain , twenty are dispersed in the woods .
Dividing the Proceeds The apartment on the first floor of the house in the Rue Saint-Germain-des-Prés , where Albert de Morcerf had selected a home for his mother , was let to a very mysterious person .
Preceded by Ali , who carried a rose-colored flambeau in his hand , the young lady , who was no other than the lovely Greek who had been Monte Cristo ’ s companion in Italy , was conducted to her apartments , while the count retired to the pavilion reserved for himself .
M. de Tréville , after having written the letter , sealed it , and rising , approached the young man in order to give it to him .
“ Take these flowers into the anteroom or dressing-room , ” said the viscount ; “ they make the countess ill. ” The footman obeyed his orders .
As a result of the sympathetic devotion which Jacopo had from the first bestowed on Edmond , the latter was moved to a certain degree of affection .
I have seen so many remarkable things in him , that if you would have me really say what I think , I shall reply that I really do look upon him as one of Byron ’ s heroes , whom misery has marked with a fatal brand ; some Manfred , some Lara , some Werner , one of those wrecks , as it were , of some ancient family , who , disinherited of their patrimony , have achieved one by the force of their adventurous genius , which has placed them above the laws of society. ” “ You say—— ” “ I say that Monte Cristo is an island in the midst of the Mediterranean , without inhabitants or garrison , the resort of smugglers of all nations , and pirates of every flag .
If we lay hands on this fortune , we may enjoy it without remorse. ” “ And you say this treasure amounts to—— ” “ Two millions of Roman crowns ; nearly thirteen millions of our money. ” 2 “ Impossible ! ” said Dantès , staggered at the enormous amount .
Then they returned to the Rospoli Palace ; but the count and the blue domino had also disappeared ; the two windows , hung with yellow damask , were still occupied by the persons whom the count had invited .
“ Oh , it is impossible to doubt it , ” cried he , suddenly .
She has always believed me , sire , to be her enemy ; although your Majesty can bear witness that I have always taken her part warmly , even against you .
You have not played for a long time , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ And I have no inclination to play. ” “ Swear to nothing .
“ Sire , ” resumed Tréville , “ as I told you , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is little more than a boy ; and as he has not the honor of being a Musketeer , he was dressed as a citizen .
He had passed and re-passed his Island of Monte Cristo twenty times , but not once had he found an opportunity of landing there .
When this terrible chain of ideas presented itself , Valentine was nearly persuaded to ring the bell , and call for help .
Buckingham saw this apparition in the glass ; he uttered a cry .
No , monsieur , he has not a lady with him. ” “ With whom is he , then ? ” “ With the curate of Montdidier and the superior of the Jesuits of Amiens. ” “ Good heavens ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ is the poor fellow worse , then ? ” “ No , monsieur , quite the contrary ; but after his illness grace touched him , and he determined to take orders. ” “ That ’ s it ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I had forgotten that he was only a Musketeer for a time. ” “ Monsieur still insists upon seeing him ? ” “ More than ever. ” “ Well , monsieur has only to take the right-hand staircase in the courtyard , and knock at Number Five on the second floor. ” D ’ Artagnan walked quickly in the direction indicated , and found one of those exterior staircases that are still to be seen in the yards of our old-fashioned taverns .
“ Follow him , ” said Athos .
“ I am as sure now that the king will be saved as I am sure that I clasp the most loyal hand in the world. ” Aramis parted from Athos , went down from the scaffold in his turn and took his way to the hotel , whistling the air of a song in praise of Cromwell .
He kept on his way at the same rate , heedless about upsetting those whom he met on the road .
A circle was formed around them .
Bonacieux , with great emotion , “ in my name I beg you !
“ Wait a minute longer , and I will introduce him to you. ” There followed between these two personages a strange silence , during which the sound of a slow and regular step was heard approaching .
Porthos had found nothing , and with him fatigue had prevailed over hunger .
He insisted upon it , declaring beforehand that he was willing to make any sacrifice the other wished .
What ? —attempt to murder me in my father ’ s house , in my room , on my bed of sickness ?
Albert glanced carelessly at the different missives , selected two written in a small and delicate hand , and enclosed in scented envelopes , opened them and perused their contents with some attention .
Grimaud made a sign that he was going away .
Today is the 29th of August ; the 21st of September will , therefore , be the conclusion of the term agreed on , and till that time arrives—and it is the advice of a gentleman which I am about to give you—till then we will refrain from growling and barking like two dogs chained within sight of each other. ” When he had concluded his speech , Beauchamp bowed coldly to Albert , turned his back upon him , and went to the press-room .
yes , yes , war , ” said Anne of Austria .
The hapless Dantès was doomed .
“ You see , ” said Athos .
Let each of us wait at a gate of the palace with three Musketeers behind him ; if we see a close carriage , at all suspicious in appearance , come out , let us fall upon it .
The counter was covered with a plate of pewter ; upon this plate was written with the point of a large pin : “ Rueil ... D .. ” “ They went to Rueil , ” cried Aramis .
He entered the chamber and closed the door behind him .
An hour had elapsed since her condemnation ; at that moment , doubtless , she was recalling all her crimes to her memory ; she was asking pardon for her sins ; perhaps she was even writing a letter imploring forgiveness from her virtuous husband—a forgiveness she was purchasing with her death !
“ Explain it , Athos. ” Groslow , on the question being interpreted , answered , “ Three , without counting myself. ” D ’ Artagnan understood , for while replying the captain had raised three fingers .
“ Is that monsieur ? ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself .
The idea of suicide , which his friend had driven away and kept away by his cheerful presence , now hovered like a phantom over the abbé ’ s dead body .
Lord de Winter continued : “ The officer who commands here in my absence you have already seen , and therefore know him .
We have made our calculations with Spartan economy , and we each require fifteen hundred livres. ” “ Four times fifteen makes sixty—six thousand livres , ” said Athos .
“ Be civil , or I shall beat you ; for although one may not choose to proclaim oneself , one insists on respect suitable to one ’ s rank. ” “ You don ’ t choose to discover yourself , because you are the leader of an ambuscade , ” returned D ’ Artagnan ; “ but with regard to myself , who am traveling quietly with my own servant , I have not the same reasons as you have to conceal my name. ” “ Enough !
‘ Eh ? ’ said he , showing it .
It was indeed Mousqueton—Mousqueton , as fat as a pig , rolling about with rude health , puffed out with good living , who , recognizing D ’ Artagnan and acting very differently from the hypocrite Bazin , slipped off his horse and approached the officer with his hat off , so that the homage of the assembled crowd was turned toward this new sun , which eclipsed the former luminary .
No , I did not say I was a stranger to you .
Now the sight of this chateau had taken Raoul back fifty leagues westward and had caused him to review his life from the moment when he had taken leave of little Louise to that in which he had seen her for the first time ; and every branch of oak , every gilded weathercock on roof of slates , reminded him that , instead of returning to the friends of his childhood , every instant estranged him further and that perhaps he had even left them forever .
But would it be just to allow me to go to a possible death without having given me at least something more than hope ? ” Milady answered by a glance which said , “ Is that all ? —speak , then. ” And then accompanying the glance with explanatory words , “ That is but too just , ” said she , tenderly .
xxii .
“ _Ma foi ! _ ” said Monte Cristo , after the first compliments were over , “ what is the matter with you , M. de Villefort ?
The boat approached as near as it could to the shore ; but there was not depth enough of water for it to touch land .
We will not constrain you to help us ; we enroll no one against his conscience , but we will compel you to act generously , even if you are not disposed to do so. ” “ ‘ “ You would call acting generously , knowing your conspiracy and not informing against you , that is what I should call becoming your accomplice .
My wife and my daughter would die of it !
“ What horses ? ” asked Athos .
However insignificant I am , I am sure that his majesty is concerned for me and blames himself for my death. ” “ Be easy , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ he will know all before night. ” The little troop recommenced their march , and at the end of two hours perceived a considerable body of horsemen about half a league ahead .
Bonacieux ; “ you will ruin us all ! ” “ But I have sworn to kill that man ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
It was at this moment of discomfort that the inspector ’ s voice called him to the visiting-room .
“ Well , ” continued Mazarin , “ the time has come to put to use your talents and your valor. ” There was a sudden gleam of joy in the officer ’ s eyes , which vanished immediately , for he knew nothing of Mazarin ’ s purpose .
Oh , D ’ Artagnan ! ” “ The devil !
“ Ah , ah ! ” said the listener , “ not through doors , but through windows !
A more than deathlike silence then reigned in the house .
The prisoner got into the carriage without seeming to recognize the musketeer .
“ No , but by browsing the shrubs and trees that grow out of the crevices of the rocks. ” “ Where can I sleep ? ” “ On shore in the grottos , or on board in your cloak ; besides , if your excellency pleases , we can leave as soon as you like—we can sail as well by night as by day , and if the wind drops we can use our oars. ” As Franz had sufficient time , and his apartments at Rome were not yet available , he accepted the proposition .
At that moment Buckingham was throwing upon a couch a rich toilet robe , worked with gold , in order to put on a blue velvet doublet embroidered with pearls .
“ Now , Athos ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ do you begin to believe that it ’ s a ruined cause , and that what with your Harrisons , Joyces , Bridges and Cromwells , we shall never get the upper hand ? ” “ The king will be delivered at the tribunal , ” said Athos ; “ the very silence of his supporters indicates that they are at work. ” D ’ Artagnan shrugged his shoulders .
“ My adored Valentine , words can not express one half of my satisfaction. ” Valentine had approached , or rather , had placed her lips so near the fence , that they nearly touched those of Morrel , which were pressed against the other side of the cold and inexorable barrier .
“ Your Excellency is safe and sound ? ” asked the host .
I hope we shall have something better to do to-night than to draw the sword. ” “ What have we to do ? ” “ Egad !
You will deliver this letter to Milady .
“ Zounds !
“ Not to reply would be a blot on my name and my honor. ” “ That is my opinion , ” said Aramis .
He was in bed , but surrounded with all the paraphernalia of war .
You are coming , my boy ! ” “ Oh , you don ’ t see straight , ” said Danglars ; “ he ’ s gone right by the road to the Vieilles Infirmeries. ” “ Well , ” said Caderousse , “ I should have sworn that he turned to the right—how treacherous wine is ! ” “ Come , come , ” said Danglars to himself , “ now the thing is at work and it will effect its purpose unassisted. ” Chapter 5 .
This time it was Mordaunt who smiled .
“ Colonel , colonel , ” cried Mordaunt , “ you are betrayed .
“ No quarter ! ” cried a voice in French , answering to that of Winter , which made them tremble .
At that moment D ’ Artagnan opened his eyes .
Five millions on five little scraps of paper ! —it must be seen to be believed. ” “ You do not doubt it ? ” “ No ! ” “ You say so with an accent—stay , you shall be convinced ; take my clerk to the bank , and you will see him leave it with an order on the Treasury for the same sum. ” “ No , ” said Monte Cristo folding the five notes , “ most decidedly not ; the thing is so curious , I will make the experiment myself .
This was the more so because Bonacieux ’ s reflections were all rose-colored .
“ You come from the queen ? ” said Mazarin , looking fixedly at D ’ Artagnan .
“ I should be delighted to do so , ” was the reply ; “ but if I am not mistaken , the words ‘ In haste , ’ are written on the envelope of the letter which I brought. ” “ You are right , ” said Du Tremblay .
Set out for Naples , the Hague , or St. Petersburg—calm countries , where the point of honor is better understood than among our hot-headed Parisians .
Once across the barriers these two knew neither fatigue nor fear .
The four muskets made but one report , but four men fell .
“ By heavens , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo , starting back , “ it is—— ” Ali raised his hatchet .
What could explain Athos ’ s having re-entered the world and the extreme sobriety he had observed at table ?
And having got out all he wanted , he paid for the hypocras , which he did not drink , and went quickly back to the Rue Tiquetonne .
Three or four times he has said to me , and certainly without the slightest premeditation , ‘ at such a period I was five years old , at another ten years old , at another twelve , ’ and I , induced by curiosity , which kept me alive to these details , have compared the dates , and never found him inaccurate .
“ Wait. ” “ What are you going to do ? ” asked Aramis .
Moses , the servant of God—he was but a servant , please to understand—Moses blessed with the hands ; he held out both his arms while the Hebrews beat their enemies , and then he blessed them with his two hands .
“ Well , ” said she , returning the knife to the young officer , “ this is fine and good steel .
Ah , my heart clung to the count when he mentioned the dear spoil found beneath the flowers. ” “ Well , no , madame , —this is the terrible news I have to tell you , ” said Villefort in a hollow voice— “ no , nothing was found beneath the flowers ; there was no child disinterred—no .
sir , you know well I would risk my life for you. ” “ Thou mayst add that thou hast risked it , Planchet .
the ghost of former greatness .
He was intently watching for a shadow to appear among the trees , and awaiting with anxiety the sound of a light step on the gravel walk .
“ Oh !
“ That dark point yonder is the Isle of Dogs .
“ Byron had the most perfect belief in the existence of vampires , and even assured me that he had seen them .
himself , who took a pride in being considered a past master therein .
It was , then , Richelieu ’ s object , not only to get rid of an enemy of France , but to avenge himself on a rival ; but this vengeance must be grand and striking and worthy in every way of a man who held in his hand , as his weapon for combat , the forces of a kingdom .
Are there , then , really women who bear the name of Haydée anywhere but in Byron ’ s poems ? ” “ Certainly there are .
As for his suspicions , once on _terra firma_ , once that he had seen the indifferent , if not friendly , appearance of his hosts , his anxiety had quite disappeared , or rather , at sight of the goat , had turned to appetite .
I will go there , where I expect to find letters , and you go to the first tavern in the town , to L ’ Epee du Grand Henri for instance , refresh yourselves , and in two hours be upon the jetty ; our boat is waiting for us there. ” The matter being thus decided , the two friends found , about two hundred paces further , the tavern indicated .
“ Come , come , Tréville , hold your tongue , ” said the king .
How could I help being astonished when , without having the least expectation of such a thing , I meet you face to face—you , of whom we have so often spoken together , you whom he loves with all his soul , you whom he had taught me to love before I had seen you !
To the questions which D ’ Artagnan put concerning her health , she replied , “ Bad , very bad. ” “ Then , ” replied he , “ my visit is ill-timed ; you , no doubt , stand in need of repose , and I will withdraw. ” “ No , no ! ” said Milady .
While we wait , time will be progressing , events will succeed each other ; things which in the evening look dark and obscure , appear but too clearly in the light of morning , and sometimes the utterance of one word , or the lapse of a single day , will reveal the most cruel calumnies. ” “ Calumnies , did you say , sir ? ” cried Morcerf , turning livid with rage .
Come , Planchet , let us pay a visit to the king ’ s treasurer and then set off. ” “ Toward Paris , sir ? ” “ Toward Paris. ” And they set out at as hard a canter as their horses could maintain .
“ I fancy I begin to see my way , ” murmured Milady , with a savage joy , burying herself under the clothes to conceal from anybody who might be watching her this burst of inward satisfaction .
When she was sufficiently near for me to distinguish her features , I saw she was from eighteen to nineteen , tall and very fair .
Your protector had seen with pain this marriage of his elder brother with a portionless girl .
De Flamarens and De Chatillon continued on their way and Athos and Aramis dismounted .
At the door of the chapel D ’ Artagnan felt his courage fall anew , and returned to look for Athos ; but Athos had disappeared .
“ For a very serious matter , which bids fair to make work for the executioner. ” “ How dreadful ! ” exclaimed Renée , turning pale .
The queen appeared , and was followed by the king and the Duke d ’ Anjou , his brother .
D ’ Artagnan and Planchet mounted , and took the road to St. Germain .
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 .
He was hungry ; he supped , he went to bed .
I can recognize the flavor of the alcohol in which it has been dissolved .
Cavalcanti is going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars ? ” asked Beauchamp .
Behind him , blacker than the sea , blacker than the sky , rose phantom-like the vast stone structure , whose projecting crags seemed like arms extended to seize their prey , and on the highest rock was a torch lighting two figures .
At this sight the young man stopped short , not in admiration of Raphael ’ s picture , but as if fascinated at the sight of some terrible object .
The pope had also need of money to bring matters to an end with Louis XII .
Let me look at you ! ” and while saying these words , she absolutely devoured her by her looks .
“ You hear me—at a quarter past midnight—in fact , in twenty minutes. ” “ I understand all perfectly , sir , ” replied Groslow ; “ but allow me to say there is great danger in what you undertake ; would it not be better to intrust one of the men to set fire to the train ? ” “ My dear Groslow , ” answered Mordaunt , “ you know the French proverb , ‘ Nothing one does not do one ’ s self is ever well done. ’ I shall abide by that rule. ” Grimaud had heard all this , if he had not understood it .
“ Ah , monsieur , ” said Planchet , “ I saw one fall at each of his two shots , and he appeared to me , through the glass door , to be fighting with his sword with the others. ” “ Brave Athos ! ” murmured D ’ Artagnan , “ and to think that we are compelled to leave him ; maybe the same fate awaits us two paces hence .
Franz coolly cocked both barrels .
Besides , we feel always a sort of mental superiority over those whose lives we know better than they suppose .
“ I am not begging , my fine fellow , ” said the unknown to the servant , with so ironical an expression of the eye , and so frightful a smile , that he withdrew ; “ I only wish to say two or three words to your master , who gave me a commission to execute about a fortnight ago. ” “ Come , ” said Andrea , with sufficient nerve for his servant not to perceive his agitation , “ what do you want ?
I married that woman when she was a young girl ; I married her in opposition to the wishes of all my family ; I gave her my wealth , I gave her my name ; and one day I discovered that this woman was branded—this woman was marked with a _fleur-de-lis_ on her left shoulder. ” “ Oh , ” said Milady , raising herself , “ I defy you to find any tribunal which pronounced that infamous sentence against me .
Of what use is it to be a churchman , pray ?
Words might be heard at a distance through all these open doors .
And now , whenever he wishes—— ” “ Well , whenever he wishes ? ” Planchet began to sing : “ Un vent de fronde S ’ est leve ce matin ; Je crois qu ’ il gronde Contre le Mazarin .
This was fulfilling the intentions of Monsieur Porthos , who had desired us to be so careful of this letter , was it not ? ” “ Nearly so. ” “ Well , monsieur , do you know who this great lady is ? ” “ No ; I have heard Porthos speak of her , that ’ s all. ” “ Do you know who this pretended duchess is ?
“ Monsieur Bazin , ” said Friquet , “ Monsieur Maillard—you know who he is , he gives holy water at Saint Eustache—— ” “ Well , go on. ” “ Well , he received in the scrimmage a sword stroke on the head .
“ My dear M. d ’ Artagnan , the welfare of the state is deposited in your hands. ” He paused .
“ Why not , sir ? ” asked Charles .
“ What orders ? ” asked Milady .
The young men congratulated themselves on having arrived so opportunely .
Above you there is the king ; above the king there is God ! ’ “ However perfect master he was over himself , my persecutor allowed a movement of anger to escape him .
The young and high-spirited officer required all his strength of mind to resist breaking his oath .
you are punctual , ” said he , as he drew back the door .
Mazarin pretended not to understand the double meaning of his own sentence , but continued to compassionate the fate of Concino Concini .
Then , resuming his mild air , “ You are deceived , gentlemen , ” said he , “ this handkerchief is not mine , and I can not fancy why Monsieur has taken it into his head to offer it to me rather than to one of you ; and as a proof of what I say , here is mine in my pocket. ” So saying , he pulled out his own handkerchief , likewise a very elegant handkerchief , and of fine cambric—though cambric was dear at the period—but a handkerchief without embroidery and without arms , only ornamented with a single cipher , that of its proprietor .
30301m Meanwhile he advanced through the assemblage of guests under a battery of curious glances towards Madame de Morcerf , who , standing before a mantle-piece ornamented with flowers , had seen his entrance in a looking-glass placed opposite the door , and was prepared to receive him .
Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service .
There is your money , —half in bank-notes , the other half in checks payable to bearer .
“ Yes , but he has been avenged .
Really , my dear Gérard , you are but a child ; you think yourself well informed because the telegraph has told you , three days after the landing , ‘ The usurper has landed at Cannes with several men .
Italy seems fated to misfortune. ” And the old man bowed his head .
Do as I do .
Whenever you hesitate as to whom you ought to serve , abandon the exterior , the material appearance for the invisible principle , for the invisible principle is everything .
But I will take the left hand—it is my custom in such circumstances .
“ Then you have thought that Barrois was poisoned ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Do you think the poison he fell a victim to was intended for him ? ” “ No. ” “ Do you think the same hand which unintentionally struck Barrois has now attacked Valentine ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Then will she die too ? ” asked d ’ Avrigny , fixing his penetrating gaze on Noirtier .
She asked upon what day this fête would take place , but the king replied that he must consult the cardinal upon that head .
“ But , also , ” said Mazarin , “ you must understand that if I ask this service from you it is with the intention of being grateful. ” “ Is it still only an intention , your eminence ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Oh , sir , in pity send for a physician ; my whole fortune shall not be thought too much for the recovery of my boy. ” With a calm smile and a gentle wave of the hand , Monte Cristo signed to the distracted mother to lay aside her apprehensions ; then , opening a casket that stood near , he drew forth a phial of Bohemian glass incrusted with gold , containing a liquid of the color of blood , of which he let fall a single drop on the child ’ s lips .
I saw him yesterday ; your friend ’ s lackey was leading him. ’ ‘ Do you think he is worth a hundred pistoles ? ’ ‘ Yes !
“ Is it thus you perform your charge , monsieur ? ” continued the king , without directly replying to de Tréville ’ s question .
The outlook was sad .
Well , Monsieur La Ramee , you shall judge of it yourself and at once. ’ ‘ I can not , ’ I replied ; ‘ it is absolutely necessary for me to return to the chateau. ’ ‘ Very well , ’ said he , ‘ go and attend to your affairs , since you seem to be in a hurry , but come back in half an hour. ’ ‘ In half an hour ? ’ ‘ Yes , have you breakfasted ? ’ ‘ Faith , no. ’ ‘ Well , here is a pate that will be ready for you , with a bottle of old Burgundy. ’ So , you see , my lord , since I am hungry , I would , with your highness ’ s leave—— ” And La Ramee bent low .
The young man waited in comparative darkness and listened .
It was too soon for a visit from the examining magistrate , and too late for one from the director of the prison , or the doctor ; it must , then , be the visitor he hoped for .
“ And this gentleman , being disengaged , takes to the service willingly ? ” he asked .
“ Ah , my dear friend ! ” he cried , “ what bad stabling for my horses here. ” “ Indeed ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I am most unhappy to hear it , on account of those fine animals. ” “ And I , also—I was also wretchedly off , ” he answered , moving backward and forward as he spoke ; “ and had it not been for the hostess , ” he added , with his air of vulgar self-complacency , “ who is very agreeable and understands a joke , I should have got a lodging elsewhere. ” The pretty Madeleine , who had approached during this colloquy , stepped back and turned pale as death on hearing Porthos ’ s words , for she thought the scene with the Swiss was about to be repeated .
D ’ Artagnan , keeping at some distance from his friends , darted a scrutinizing glance into every carriage that appeared , but saw no face with which he was acquainted .
But what are you doing ?
I was not willing to fly .
“ Madame , ” replied Aramis , “ I must ask your pardon , but I know not how to hide my indignation at seeing how a daughter of Henry IV .
Caderousse remained on the landing until he had not only seen Andrea go down the three stories , but also cross the court .
Raoul , his hat in ribbons , his face bleeding , felt not only his strength but also his reason going ; a red mist covered his sight , and through this mist he saw a hundred threatening arms stretched over him , ready to seize upon him when he fell .
I will allow myself to die with hunger. ’ “ ‘ Come , ’ said the wretch , ‘ is not peace much better than such a war as that ?
The result of the experiment left no doubt whatever on the mind .
There are , then , 40,000 francs for your share , besides the 100,000 you furnished me to begin with , making in all 1,340,000 francs for your portion .
In a corner , almost hidden from view , were three gentlemen , who had preceded Athos and Aramis , and an officer was examining their passports .
Thus , while contemplating the misfortune which threatened her and the abandonment in which she was left , she broke out into sobs and tears .
Felton darted into the palace .
Bernouin , seeing that his master did not return and hearing the stroke of midnight , had made an examination of the orangery .
“ Because I bent my arm and rested my hand on my elbow—so ; do you understand what I mean ? ” “ Yes , sir .
You know the vessel is lost. ” “ The _Pharaon_ , sir—they signal the _Pharaon_ !
We have quitted business. ’ “ ‘ How long ? ’ inquired the astonished merchant .
The pressure she felt was evidently intended to arrest her arm , and she slowly withdrew it .
By the word of a gentleman , you shall have no cause to repent of your confidence. ” “ Well , monsieur , you understand that uneasiness makes us do many things. ” “ What have you done ? ” “ Oh , nothing which was not right in the character of a creditor. ” “ Well ? ” “ Monsieur Porthos gave us a note for his duchess , ordering us to put it in the post .
“ Oh , mademoiselle , mademoiselle ! ” cried Franz , “ your grandfather says he can indicate the person .
Charles was indeed in the midst of them , his hat on his head , his brows bent , striking his boot with his riding whip .
In the vehicle was a young woman and a child of about seven or eight clasped in each other ’ s arms .
And all present , even including Cavalcanti and his son , notwithstanding the stiffness of the one and the carelessness of the other , were thoughtful , on finding themselves assembled at the house of this incomprehensible man .
And she resumed her seat , as if plunged in reflections entirely personal .
“ Athos , ” said the Musketeer .
I lost a battle in Spain , I have been defeated in Trieste , but my naval army in India will have taken some galleons , and my Mexican pioneers will have discovered some mine. ” “ Very good , very good !
But , ” he went on with his peculiar smile , “ I am here in Paris , and have plenty of time before me—by and by will do for that. ” With these reflections he entered his carriage and returned home .
Rochefort had returned to the Chevalier d ’ Humieres his fifty horsemen , less two , missing at roll call .
Hark !
“ Devil take it , my lord !
The only thing that was pleasant to him in that odious tableau—such is the instability of the human mind—was the sullen face of Grimaud , for whom he had at first conceived such a hatred and who now was all his hope .
“ At the end of a quarter of an hour Vampa quitted the grotto ; his costume was no less elegant than that of Teresa .
“ Now , Albert , ” said he , “ you understand me—do you not ?
And since I found means to enter this enclosure to exchange a few words with you through this gate—to be close to you without really seeing you—have I ever asked so much as to touch the hem of your gown or tried to pass this barrier which is but a trifle to one of my youth and strength ?
Go into my cell as quickly as you can ; draw out one of the feet that support the bed ; you will find it has been hollowed out for the purpose of containing a small phial you will see there half-filled with a red-looking fluid .
There was no further question , therefore , about Marie Michon among the four Musketeers , who besides had what they wanted : that was , the order to withdraw Mme .
The door was closed , but I looked through the keyhole , and saw him so pale and haggard , that believing him very ill , I went and told M. Morrel and then ran on to Mercédès .
“ All the nobility of Rome will be present , and if your fair _incognita_ belong to the higher class of society , she must go there. ” “ Whether she goes there or not , my opinion is still the same , ” returned Albert .
“ Do you think you can behead me with a single blow ? ” asked the king .
Chapter VIII .
Morrel , horrified , supported his head with one hand , and with the other pressed his heart , lest its beatings should be heard .
Look D ’ Artagnan ; everybody is looking at her ; and in spite of Bradshaw ’ s gaze she has not turned pale. ” “ It is Lady Fairfax herself , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
You are crazy .
At length I discovered that he went mysteriously to Auteuil .
Don ’ t try to understand it—you will only lose your time. ” “ You forgive me , then , sir , ” said Raoul , “ and you will deign to tell me who is the person that you call the young Indian ? ” “ Certainly ; one of the most charming persons that lives—Mademoiselle Frances d ’ Aubigne. ” “ Does she belong to the family of the celebrated Agrippa , the friend of Henry IV .
Villefort , perceiving the abbé , passed his hand across his brow .
Go , my friend , reserve your strength for the moment when the crash shall come. ” 40179m “ You think , then , all is not over yet ? ” said Albert , horror-stricken .
“ When ? ” “ To-morrow evening , if you like ! ” “ At what hour ? ” “ At ten in the evening , if that suits you ; by that time we shall have returned. ” “ Good. ” “ There , ” continued Athos , “ either peace or war will be decided ; honor , at all events , will be maintained ! ” “ Alas ! ” murmured D ’ Artagnan , “ our honor as soldiers is lost to us forever ! ” “ D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , gravely , “ I assure you that you do me wrong in dwelling so upon that .
D ’ Artagnan and Porthos pointed to their dusty and torn dresses , but the cardinal shook his head .
Grimaud extended his hands in the direction of the Lys .
I want to learn. ” “ Everything , ” said the abbé .
D ’ Artagnan rushed out of the room .
Louis XIII .
“ So much the better. ” “ Are we then to go to war ? ” “ By my troth , yes. ” “ Against whom ? ” “ Are you a politician , friend ? ” “ Not in the least. ” “ Are you for Mazarin or for the princes ? ” “ I am for no one. ” “ That is to say , you are for us .
The count inquired whether any of the ancient jailers were still there ; but they had all been pensioned , or had passed on to some other employment .
And he began to wander about the room like a man beside himself , gesticulating and half drawing his sword out of the scabbard .
That knife , which the fatal prudence of the baron deprived me of , because he knows the use I would make of it !
“ Vampa put the two sequins haughtily into his pocket , and slowly returned by the way he had gone .
One look was sufficient to tell her that her grandfather was suffering , and that there was much on his mind which he was wishing to communicate to her .
Porthos , in spite of a touch of vanity , has many excellent qualities .
Too many diamonds , too much gold and splendor , are now reflected by the mirror in which Monte Cristo seeks to behold Dantès .
so young ! ” cried Felton , covering that hand with his kisses .
“ Do you know what you look like , all together , as you are armed and guarded by your lackeys ? ” said the cardinal .
[ 19 ] In the old Greek legend the Atreidae , or children of Atreus , were doomed to punishment because of the abominable crime of their father .
I had no hope of getting off so easily. ” “ He gives you his word of honor , ” said Gondy .
“ ‘ The prayers of all good Christians are entreated for these unfortunate men , that it may please God to awaken them to a sense of their guilt , and to grant them a hearty and sincere repentance for their crimes. ’ ” This was precisely what Franz had heard the evening before in the ruins of the Colosseum .
Forward , Planchet , forward !
help ! ” No voice replied to hers ; the carriage continued to roll on with rapidity ; the officer seemed a statue .
I was speaking of your father ’ s past history .
The slave of the Count of Monte Cristo !
D ’ Artagnan was passing along a lane on the spot where the Rue d ’ Assas is now situated , breathing the balmy emanations which were borne upon the wind from the Rue de Vaugirard , and which arose from the gardens refreshed by the dews of evening and the breeze of night .
As you please ; it is ready in all ways. ” “ I will take it in the Turkish style , ” replied Franz .
Journeys , you know , appear much shorter when we travel two in company. ” “ Have you no friends in Paris , then , Monsieur Porthos ? ” said the procurator ’ s wife .
Villefort left her to the care of the women , while old Barrois ran , half-scared , to his master ; for nothing frightens old people so much as when death relaxes its vigilance over them for a moment in order to strike some other old person .
“ Why , ” replied Athos , carelessly , “ she is probably going to write to the cardinal that a damned Musketeer , named Athos , has taken her safe-conduct from her by force ; she will advise him in the same letter to get rid of his two friends , Aramis and Porthos , at the same time .
She wore a blue and white-striped vest , with long open sleeves , trimmed with silver loops and buttons of pearls , and a sort of bodice , which , closing only from the centre to the waist , exhibited the whole of the ivory throat and upper part of the bosom ; it was fastened with three magnificent diamond clasps .
In March there was a question about a grant to a railway .
These 900,000 francs will go out of the family in order to enrich some hospital ; but it is ridiculous thus to yield to the caprices of an old man , and I shall , therefore , act according to my conscience. ” Having said this , Villefort quitted the room with his wife , leaving his father at liberty to do as he pleased .
The mercer fancied himself already on the high road to honors and fortune .
Rebuff Buckingham and consent to Mazarin ! ” “ Just like the women , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , coolly .
I followed her , I caught her , I bound her ; and I imprinted the same disgraceful mark upon her that I had imprinted upon my poor brother .
Chapter XV .
Monte Cristo did not see this second manifestation of physical exhaustion ; he was at the window , calling : “ Ali , a horse for M. de Morcerf—quick !
Was the Gascon determined to keep it as a weapon against Milady , or else , let us be frank , did he not reserve the sapphire as a last resource for his outfit ?
“ They are these ; never to leave the prisoner alone ; to keep away from him every pointed or cutting instrument , and to prevent his conversing any length of time with the keepers. ” “ Those are all ? ” asked Grimaud .
His wife visited for him , and this was the received thing in the world , where the weighty and multifarious occupations of the magistrate were accepted as an excuse for what was really only calculated pride , a manifestation of professed superiority—in fact , the application of the axiom , _Pretend to think well of yourself , and the world will think well of you_ , an axiom a hundred times more useful in society nowadays than that of the Greeks , “ Know thyself , ” a knowledge for which , in our days , we have substituted the less difficult and more advantageous science of _knowing others_ .
“ But , tell me , what do you ask ? ” “ Nothing ; for that amounts to the same thing as if I asked you for something. ” The procurator ’ s wife hung upon the arm of Porthos , and in the violence of her grief she cried out , “ Monsieur Porthos , I am ignorant of all such matters !
Matrimonial Projects Chapter 67 .
Near the bottom of the ladder , when he found no more support for his feet , he clung with his hands ; at length , arrived at the last step , he let himself hang by the strength of his wrists , and touched the ground .
“ Let us see if she shuts the door after him , ” he muttered .
“ We have no time now for suspicions , ” said Athos .
He walked to the window and looked into the court .
D ’ Artagnan related his story simply , with the omission of names .
What do you say to it ? ” “ Why , that I should think it very amusing , ” replied Franz , “ if it had happened to anyone but poor Albert. ” “ And , in truth , if you had not found me here , ” said the count , “ it might have proved a gallant adventure which would have cost your friend dear ; but now , be assured , his alarm will be the only serious consequence. ” “ And shall we go and find him ? ” inquired Franz .
They wished to carry him to the shore ; but when they touched him , although under Jacopo ’ s directions , he declared , with heavy groans , that he could not bear to be moved .
At the moment when the hand of the massive time-piece , representing Endymion asleep , pointed to nine on its golden face , and the hammer , the faithful type of mechanical thought , struck nine times , the name of the Count of Monte Cristo resounded in its turn , and as if by an electric shock all the assembly turned towards the door .
The matter is gallant .
How did you manage to escape that scoundrel Mazarin ?
“ I have this , ” said he .
Aramis shuddered .
If you know Monsieur de Tréville , you must have visited him ? ” “ Often ! ” said Milady , who , having entered this track , and perceiving that falsehood succeeded , was determined to follow it to the end .
Tell me on what footing your household was established by your first husband , and although I am only your brother-in-law , I will arrange one similar. ” “ My first husband ! ” cried Milady , looking at Lord de Winter with eyes almost starting from their sockets .
“ Whenever your majesty pleases .
“ We look hideous , ” said Athos .
“ Ah , I always thought there was some secret understanding in that quarter ! ” And she greedily read the following few lines : MY DEAR CHILD , Hold yourself ready .
“ What do you mean by a struggle ?
I admire , I love him—for I know his former adventures—but I shall not speak to him until the day after to-morrow. ” “ And why day after to-morrow ? ” asked Madame de Chevreuse .
Speak , I beg you ! ” “ I will never confess that but to the man—who should read to the bottom of my soul ! ” D ’ Artagnan looked at Kitty for the second time .
On the sixth day , the smugglers returned .
Oh , I would rather mount the scaffold of my brother , Louis XVI. , than thus descend the staircase at the Tuileries driven away by ridicule .
What do I know of the Grecian affair ?
“ Meanwhile you will raise my monthly allowance to five hundred francs , my little fellow ?
The chevalier raised his head , saw the two young women , and without stopping , waved his hand in a friendly way to Milady .
And he disappeared without anyone seeing whither he went .
He started on seeing the cavalier with the curate .
What do you say , Athos , to that proposition ?
“ Could you have believed such a thing possible ? ” “ Why , you know I told you , ” replied Danglars , “ that I considered the circumstance of his having anchored at the Island of Elba as a very suspicious circumstance. ” “ And did you mention these suspicions to any person beside myself ? ” 0079m “ Certainly not ! ” returned Danglars .
“ Here I am , dear count. ” “ Welcome home again. ” “ I arrived an hour since. ” “ From Dieppe ? ” “ No , from Tréport. ” “ Indeed ? ” “ And I have come at once to see you. ” “ That is extremely kind of you , ” said Monte Cristo with a tone of perfect indifference .
As he found himself in the quarter in which Aramis lived , he took it into his head to pay his friend a visit in order to explain the motives which had led him to send Planchet with a request that he would come instantly to the mousetrap .
As ten o ’ clock was striking , D ’ Artagnan left M. de Tréville , who thanked him for his information , recommended him to have the service of the king and queen always at heart , and returned to the saloon ; but at the foot of the stairs , D ’ Artagnan remembered he had forgotten his cane .
As he came within two or three hundred paces of the grotto , he thought he heard a cry .
No , I don ’ t want your help , watch the cardinal. ” “ I am watching , ” said Porthos .
Monsieur , I love men of your kidney ; and I foresee plainly that if we don ’ t kill each other , I shall hereafter have much pleasure in your conversation .
Whilst he was thinking that he should first taste the liquor which the tankard contained before taking it to his companions , the door of the cellar opened and a man with a lantern in his hands and enveloped in a cloak , came and stood just before the hogshead , behind which Grimaud , on hearing him come in , instantly crept .
When they reached the steps Raoul saw three horses .
On seeing him , the regiment of Corinth , which the coadjutor had not been able to reorganize in spite of all his efforts , threw itself into the midst of the Parisian forces , put them into confusion and re-entered Charenton flying .
It was easy to see that no doubt now remained in the young girl ’ s mind as to the reality of the scene ; her eyes started with terror , her hands trembled , and she rapidly drew the bedclothes closer to her .
40042m “ ‘ The same deadly silence succeeded these words .
The sudden extinction of the _moccoletti_ , the darkness which had replaced the light , and the silence which had succeeded the turmoil , had left in Franz ’ s mind a certain depression which was not free from uneasiness .
“ Well ! ” repeated Porthos .
“ Well , then , madame , not a day passes in which I do not suffer affronts from your princes and your lordly servants , all of them automata who do not perceive that I wind up the spring that makes them move , nor do they see that beneath my quiet demeanor lies the still scorn of an injured , irritated man , who has sworn to himself to master them one of these days .
“ And I also , ” said Franz .
“ Speak , my child , speak , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I listen. ” “ Here ?
“ Germain , a glass of sherry and a biscuit .
“ My husband dines with the chancellor , ” replied the young lady ; “ he has just gone , and I am sure he ’ ll be exceedingly sorry not to have had the pleasure of seeing you before he went. ” Two visitors who were there when the count arrived , having gazed at him with all their eyes , retired after that reasonable delay which politeness admits and curiosity requires .
The night after that battle he was sentry at the door of a general who carried on a secret correspondence with the enemy .
“ Alas !
The brigands have never been really extirpated from the neighborhood of Rome .
“ And you did cry ? ” he asked .
The Prison Register Chapter 29 .
“ Be easy , monsieur , ” said Planchet ; “ you do not know me yet .
Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages .
“ And pray , ” asked Franz , “ where are these pistols , blunderbusses , and other deadly weapons with which you intend filling the carriage ? ” “ Not out of my armory , for at Terracina I was plundered even of my hunting-knife .
She had allowed herself to be exceeded in generosity .
Who would have come to the assistance of two strangers , two unknown persons ?
The two young persons obeyed .
The perfidious deceiver was , as may plainly be perceived , already sacrificing , in intention , the poor girl in order to obtain Milady , willy-nilly .
“ Anne de Bueil , ” murmured the wounded man .
“ I am with the person to whom this letter was addressed , and to whom I desired to prove that Luigi Vampa was a man of his word .
The cardinal trusted him , and therein found his advantage .
“ My dear Athos , I have reflected on your arguments and I am convinced .
You say , then , that the Guardsmen sought a quarrel with the Musketeers ? ” “ I say that it is probable that things have fallen out so , but I will not swear to it , sire .
Peppino glided first into this crevice ; after they got along a few paces the passage widened .
No sound was audible save that of the carriages that were carrying the maskers home ; nothing was visible save a few lights that burnt behind the windows .
The good Captain Leclere is dead , father , and it is probable that , with the aid of M. Morrel , I shall have his place .
0267m Chapter 21 .
When at three paces distant from each other , Albert and the count stopped .
A sailor was rubbing his limbs with a woollen cloth ; another , whom he recognized as the one who had cried out “ Courage ! ” held a gourd full of rum to his mouth ; while the third , an old sailor , at once the pilot and captain , looked on with that egotistical pity men feel for a misfortune that they have escaped yesterday , and which may overtake them tomorrow .
The fourth auditor , who during all this conversation had played a mute part , made a sign of the head in proof that he acquiesced in the proposition .
There is nothing more easy , ” said Mousqueton , with a modest air .
He felt at that instant all the suspicions of jealousy agitating his heart .
“ Oh , my God , my God ! ” murmured he , “ I have so earnestly prayed to you , that I hoped my prayers had been heard .
“ But do not be alarmed on her account .
The Musketeer could not forget the evil reports which then prevailed , and which indeed have survived them , of the procurators of the period—meanness , stinginess , fasts ; but as , after all , excepting some few acts of economy which Porthos had always found very unseasonable , the procurator ’ s wife had been tolerably liberal—that is , be it understood , for a procurator ’ s wife—he hoped to see a household of a highly comfortable kind .
So , you see , our papers were quickly written out , and certainly do not come very expensive. ” This joke elicited a fresh burst of applause .
That devil , Porthos , is a man of prodigious strength ; still , if Athos joins us , well , we shall be three of us to laugh at Aramis , that little coxcomb with his too good luck. ” At Villars-Cotterets he wrote to the cardinal : “ My Lord , —I have already one man to offer to your eminence , and he is well worth twenty men .
The door immediately closed , and D ’ Artagnan found himself again in complete obscurity .
You resist , do you ? ” cried Jussac .
An hour after , her table was cleared ; but Milady remarked that this time Felton did not accompany the soldiers .
It may be imagined that D ’ Artagnan listened to these details with increasing interest ; before Grimaud had finished he rose without noise and putting his mouth to Aramis ’ s ear , and at the same time touching him on the shoulder to prevent a sudden movement : “ Chevalier , ” he said , “ get up and don ’ t make the least noise. ” Aramis awoke .
But in this world we must risk something .
You do not know with whom you have to deal ! ” 50253m Peppino made a sign , and the youth hastily removed the fowl .
He remained there all night , not knowing where he was .
The Corsican , who had declared the vendetta against me , who had followed me from Nîmes to Paris , who had hid himself in the garden , who had struck me , had seen me dig the grave , had seen me inter the child , —he might become acquainted with your person , —nay , he might even then have known it .
“ ‘ Why , ’ she inquired in a hoarse voice , ‘ did you invite him to sleep here tonight ? ’ “ ‘ Why ? ’ said Caderousse with a shudder ; ‘ why , that he might not have the trouble of returning to Beaucaire. ’ “ ‘ Ah , ’ responded the woman , with an expression impossible to describe ; ‘ I thought it was for something else. ’ “ ‘ Woman , woman—why do you have such ideas ? ’ cried Caderousse ; ‘ or , if you have them , why don ’ t you keep them to yourself ? ’ “ ‘ Well , ’ said La Carconte , after a moment ’ s pause , ‘ you are not a man. ’ “ ‘ What do you mean ? ’ added Caderousse .
For people toward whom he had but to put forth his hand , his Eminence had rarely recourse to such means .
“ The first who advances is a dead man ! ” cried Raoul , for it was in fact he , who , feeling himself pressed and almost crushed by a gigantic citizen , pricked him with the point of his sword and sent him howling back .
He had not gone twenty steps before he became convinced that the woman was really Mme .
Outside this door a spade was placed against the wall ; I took it , and advanced towards the thicket .
40302m “ It is just as I tell you , I assure you , and you must not be angry with me , for you have sought this disclosure .
“ Ay ! ” said he , “ I see ; but you shall not kill me today .
If one ’ s lot is cast among fools , it is necessary to study folly .
“ We must extricate ourselves from this position. ” “ But how ? ” “ Listen !
I am dead drunk , that ’ s all , and never did a man more strongly set about getting so .
Behind the head of the bed , and concealed by a stone fitting in so closely as to defy all suspicion , was a hollow space , and in this space a ladder of cords between twenty-five and thirty feet in length .
“ Well , my faith !
Albert de Morcerf to return to Paris , and Franz d ’ Épinay to pass a fortnight at Venice .
Ask Porthos .
Bonacieux was just the woman to walk with in the Plain St. Denis or in the fair of St. Germain , in company with Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , to whom D ’ Artagnan had often remarked this .
Well , madame , ” said De Winter , when the queen had dismissed her attendants .
It was three o ’ clock when he threw himself on the bed .
You need give yourselves no more uneasiness about this. ” “ D ’ Artagnan is right , ” said Athos ; “ here are our three leaves of absence which came from Monsieur de Tréville , and here are three hundred pistoles which came from I don ’ t know where .
I became very pale ; I felt my legs fail me ; I sought for a reply , but could find none—I was silent .
The two bodies were to be interred in the cemetery of Père-Lachaise , where M. de Villefort had long since had a tomb prepared for the reception of his family .
He is a subtle , conscienceless Italian , who though he very likely dreams of crime , dares not commit it ; and unlike Cromwell , who disposes of both Houses , Mazarin has had the queen to support him in his struggle with the parliament. ” “ More reason , then , he should protect a king pursued by parliament. ” The queen shook her head despairingly .
Franz , Albert , and the count continued to descend the Corso .
In spite of this recommendation , which , owing to the noise , could scarcely have been heard , two or three musket shots resounded , succeeded by a terrible discharge .
Her innocence had kept her in ignorance of the dangers that might assail a young girl of her age .
“ I made the tour of the room at least twenty times , in search of an outlet of some kind ; but there was none .
“ But , ” he added , “ in this war prisoners stand a chance of being hung. ” “ The deuce they do ! ” said Mousqueton ; “ I think I should like the siege of Rochelle better than this war , then ! ” Porthos , meantime , asked D ’ Artagnan to give him his instructions how to proceed on his journey .
One of them passed around to the right of the carriage , the other to the left .
At length Tuesday came , the last and most tumultuous day of the Carnival .
The opinion of Athos was that it was indeed she ; but less preoccupied by that pretty face than D ’ Artagnan , he had fancied he saw a second head , a man ’ s head , inside the carriage .
An hour had passed since the sun had set , when Franz fancied he saw , at a quarter of a mile to the left , a dark mass , but he could not precisely make out what it was , and fearing to excite the mirth of the sailors by mistaking a floating cloud for land , he remained silent ; suddenly a great light appeared on the strand ; land might resemble a cloud , but the fire was not a meteor .
“ The boy triumphed , and this victory rendered him so audacious , that all the money of Assunta , whose affection for him seemed to increase as he became more unworthy of it , was spent in caprices she knew not how to contend against , and follies she had not the courage to prevent .
“ But , ” continued she , “ Lord Wilmore had a family or friends , he must have known someone , can we not—— ” “ Oh , it is useless to inquire , ” returned the count ; “ perhaps , after all , he was not the man you seek for .
The number thirteen was always fatal to me ; it was on the thirteenth of July that— ” “ _Ventrebleu ! _ ” cried D ’ Artagnan , rising from the table , the story of the present day making him forget that of the preceding one .
That neutrality consists simply in excluding King Charles from the territory of France and in refraining from helping him—a stranger to your country—with arms , with money or with troops .
The notary left the room backwards , and bowing down to the ground ; it was the first time he had ever met a similar client .
Bonacieux , “ where art thou ?
M. de Villefort , a true Parisian , considered the cemetery of Père-Lachaise alone worthy of receiving the mortal remains of a Parisian family ; there alone the corpses belonging to him would be surrounded by worthy associates .
Our four friends , in particular , astonished their comrades ; they traveled together , side by side , with sad eyes and heads lowered .
Besides , mother , remark how vivid his eye , how raven-black his hair , and his brow , though so pale , is free from wrinkles , —he is not only vigorous , but also young. ” The countess bent her head , as if beneath a heavy wave of bitter thoughts .
D ’ Artagnan , ” said Porthos , “ I must out with it at once , for I can ’ t keep to myself anything I have against you ; I haven ’ t been able to recognize you in this matter. ” “ Why not ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , with his wise smile .
Killed him , or poniarded him , sir , as is most agreeable to you. ” “ I did not know that , ” replied M. de Tréville , in a somewhat softened tone .
Like many old houses occupied by a single family , the room door was panelled with glass ; but it was locked , Maximilian was shut in , and it was impossible to see what was passing in the room , because a red curtain was drawn before the glass .
“ Look around you , gentlemen , if you doubt the fact , ” said the duke .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied Julie with hesitation ; “ what is your pleasure ?
Lord de Winter arrived at the appointed time ; but Athos , being warned of his coming , went into the other chamber .
“ My dear Albert , ” said he , “ let me introduce to you M. Maximilian Morrel , captain of Spahis , my friend ; and what is more—however the man speaks for himself—my preserver .
“ No , ” replied the count , carelessly ; “ for the other ( he glanced at the tablets as if to recall the name ) , for Peppino , called Rocca Priori .
It was thus worded : “ My dear Fellow , “ The moment you have received this , have the kindness to take the letter of credit from my pocket-book , which you will find in the square drawer of the _secrétaire_ ; add your own to it , if it be not sufficient .
“ Besides , ” continued the young man , “ if there did appear some defect in education , or offence against the established forms of etiquette , I suppose it would be excused , in consideration of the misfortunes which accompanied my birth , and followed me through my youth. ” “ Well , ” said Monte Cristo in an indifferent tone , “ you will do as you please , count , for you are the master of your own actions , and are the person most concerned in the matter , but if I were you , I would not divulge a word of these adventures .
“ And , ” added he , biting off with his large white teeth an enormous mouthful of bread , “ I have formed a plan. ” Caderousse ’ s plans alarmed Andrea still more than his ideas ; ideas were but the germ , the plan was reality .
To his friends M. de Villefort was a powerful protector ; to his enemies , he was a silent , but bitter opponent ; for those who were neither the one nor the other , he was a statue of the law-made man .
She was told that he had left the castle an hour before on horseback .
They have rarely been successful .
“ No , ” replied Noirtier eagerly .
He had again missed his man , who had disappeared as if by enchantment .
The vessel was making way under a blue sky , at great distance from the coast .
Provoked by a complete refusal , she bit her lip and said , “ Then shall I send Valentine to you ? ” The old man closed his eyes eagerly , thereby intimating that such was his wish .
Anne had enforced the utmost secrecy and had disclosed the event to no one except the Prince de Condé , who had sent five or six hundred horsemen into the environs of Saint Germain with orders to bring in any suspicious person who was going away from Rueil , in whatsoever direction it might be .
After giving me the plan of this house , doubtless hoping I should kill the count and he thus become his heir , or that the count would kill me and I should be out of his way , he waylaid me , and has murdered me. ” “ I have also sent for the procureur. ” “ He will not come in time ; I feel my life fast ebbing. ” “ Wait a moment , ” said Monte Cristo .
M. de Morcerf approached her .
1.F.1 .
The count laid his hand on Franz ’ s shoulder .
“ Excellency , ” cried the _cicerone_ , seeing Franz approach the window , “ shall I bring the carriage nearer to the palace ? ” Accustomed as Franz was to the Italian phraseology , his first impulse was to look round him , but these words were addressed to him .
“ So that now , ” continued Caderousse , “ he owns a magnificent house—No .
I did my best to make them drunk .
The first three remained constantly in a small waiting-room , ready to obey the summons of a small golden bell , or to receive the orders of the Romaic slave , who knew just enough French to be able to transmit her mistress ’ s wishes to the three other waiting-women ; the latter had received most peremptory instructions from Monte Cristo to treat Haydée with all the deference they would observe to a queen .
It is a demand that Porthos takes very ill when he is not in funds ; but I know he must be so at present. ” “ We thought so , too , monsieur .
Ah , I remember , Athos is at Monsieur de Tréville ’ s. ” “ But where are you going , monsieur , where are you going ? ” “ I am going down by the window , in order to be there the sooner , ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
But don ’ t let us hinder you , Mousqueton ; go and perform your master ’ s orders .
Edmond felt the trembling of the rock beneath which he lay ; the waves , dashing themselves against it , wetted him with their spray .
Morrel was seen carrying , with superhuman strength , the armchair containing Noirtier upstairs .
Porthos was magnificent ; his spurs jingled , his cuirass glittered , his sword knocked proudly against his ample limbs .
“ Yes ; he is at work in his library , but he expects you , sir , ” replied the valet .
“ Gentlemen , ” continued the stranger , “ since you do not recognize a man who probably owes his life to you twice , I must name myself .
Repeat it ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ it will make a little change. ” “ Not so , for it is religious , ” replied Aramis ; “ it is theology in verse. ” “ The devil ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The horse was of Hungarian breed , and ambled along at an easy pace .
“ Who is there ? ” answered the voice of her he sought .
0315m Still Dantès could not view without a shudder the approach of a gendarme who accompanied the officers deputed to demand his bill of health ere the yacht was permitted to hold communication with the shore ; but with that perfect self-possession he had acquired during his acquaintance with Faria , Dantès coolly presented an English passport he had obtained from Leghorn , and as this gave him a standing which a French passport would not have afforded , he was informed that there existed no obstacle to his immediate debarkation .
“ Oh ! ” he murmured , as he left the threshold of the palace : “ ungrateful court !
“ Luigi Vampa. ” “ _If by six in the morning the four thousand piastres are not in my hands , by seven o ’ clock the Count Albert will have ceased to live_. ” This second signature explained everything to Franz , who now understood the objection of the messenger to coming up into the apartment ; the street was safer for him .
I stood in the same attitude , and threw myself down .
I neglected it , and on the morrow a serious misfortune happened to me—Constance disappeared .
Oh , you can not believe what you say ! ” “ Let me act as I please , Felton , let me act as I please , ” said Milady , elated .
“ It is very hot , ” said Athos , drawing his sword in its turn , “ and yet I can not take off my doublet ; for I just now felt my wound begin to bleed again , and I should not like to annoy Monsieur with the sight of blood which he has not drawn from me himself. ” “ That is true , Monsieur , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ and whether drawn by myself or another , I assure you I shall always view with regret the blood of so brave a gentleman .
D ’ Artagnan ’ s eyes sparkled with joy .
Mousqueton remained glued to the door , awaiting the explanation of this strange occurrence .
“ Your pardon , sir , ” replied Villefort , quite astounded , “ but you will excuse me if , when I presented myself to you , I was unaware that I should meet with a person whose knowledge and understanding so far surpass the usual knowledge and understanding of men .
My brother is only your second husband ; and your first is still living .
“ Who goes there ? ” cried he , as soon as he perceived the horsemen .
Did anyone introduce you to him ? ” “ No ; it was he who introduced himself to us. ” “ When ? ” “ Last night , after we left you. ” “ Through what medium ? ” “ The very prosaic one of our landlord. ” “ He is staying , then , at the Hôtel de Londres with you ? ” “ Not only in the same hotel , but on the same floor. ” “ What is his name ; for , of course , you know ? ” “ The Count of Monte Cristo. ” “ That is not a family name ? ” “ No , it is the name of the island he has purchased. ” “ And he is a count ? ” “ A Tuscan count. ” “ Well , we must put up with that , ” said the countess , who was herself from one of the oldest Venetian families .
Good-night , my friends .
You are about to become captain at nineteen—an elevated post ; you are about to marry a pretty girl , who loves you ; and these two pieces of good fortune may have excited the envy of someone. ” “ You are right ; you know men better than I do , and what you say may possibly be the case , I confess ; but if such persons are among my acquaintances I prefer not to know it , because then I should be forced to hate them. ” “ You are wrong ; you should always strive to see clearly around you .
“ Most assuredly , ” responded Madame de Villefort in the same tone .
The two gentlemen were exasperated ; they had had a long ride , and were dying with hunger and thirst .
“ Alas , my dear friend , ” said Faria in a resigned tone , “ you understand , do you not , and I need not attempt to explain to you ? ” Edmond uttered a cry of agony , and , quite out of his senses , rushed towards the door , exclaiming , “ Help , help ! ” Faria had just sufficient strength to restrain him .
“ What do you say , Maximilian ? ” asked Valentine .
He pushed through the crowd , approached Athos , still insensible , and as all this noise and commotion inconvenienced him greatly , he required , as the first and most urgent thing , that the Musketeer should be carried into an adjoining chamber .
He was pale , and his eyes were red and swollen ; it was evident that he had not slept .
He began to reflect upon the events that had passed ; they were numerous and inauspicious .
This night I am determined to be free. ” “ And if I defend myself , or call , or cry out ? ” “ I will kill thee , on the honor of a gentleman. ” At this moment the clock struck .
It was nearly eight o ’ clock when they set out again .
Keep the commission ; it is yours .
“ What ?
The count had spoken correctly .
Thanks to the attentions of Raoul and the man who accompanied the young gentleman , the color gradually returned to the pale cheeks of the dying man , who opened his eyes , at first entirely bewildered , but who soon fixed his gaze upon the person who had saved him .
“ I have just received my courier from Greece , ” said Danglars .
My God !
Here is a letter , which must be taken to its address. ” “ To its address , my lord ?
On his side the prince sounded a rappel and all the officers of the royalist army , mingling momentarily with the Parisian troops , ran to him .
In ten minutes D ’ Artagnan reached the end of an alley regularly planted with fine poplars and terminating in an iron gate , the points and crossed bars of which were gilt .
“ And with my grandfather ’ s consent I shall fulfil the promise which I have made you. ” Valentine pronounced these last few words in such a low tone , that nothing but Morrel ’ s intense interest in what she was saying could have enabled him to hear them .
You accuse him , then ?
What is this ? ” “ It is the blood of the unfortunate man whom you left at the inn and who died in my arms. ” “ In your arms ? —that man !
there they are ! ” The coachman turning around , gave Friquet a slash with his whip which made him scream with pain .
The valet de chambre appeared on the door-steps .
Here he is. ” A man of about forty-five or fifty entered , exactly resembling the smuggler who had introduced Franz into the cavern ; but he did not appear to recognize him .
Call Charles , ” he added , addressing the boy who waited .
Then the curate forbade me to quit my uniform , and the Jesuit entreated me to get him made a Musketeer. ” “ Without a thesis ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ without a thesis ?
Depart then , depart , I implore you ! ” “ Oh , how beautiful you are thus !
D ’ Artagnan detained her by her night dress of fine India linen , to implore her pardon ; but she , with a strong movement , tried to escape .
I made such haste that I am certain of not having been forestalled .
In the midst of this seeming hilarity , nevertheless , people ’ s minds were uneasy .
The cardinal was acquainted with the activity , and more particularly the hatred , of Buckingham .
“ Alas ! ” said Felton , looking at those beautiful hands , and shaking his head sorrowfully .
Here were not , as in other tombs , ignoble drawers , one above another , where thrift bestows its dead and labels them like specimens in a museum ; all that was visible within the bronze gates was a gloomy-looking room , separated by a wall from the vault itself .
At the Barrière du Trône they met Bertuccio , who was waiting there , motionless as a sentinel at his post .
All was useless , the treasure disappeared , and had again reverted to the genii from whom for a moment he had hoped to carry it off .
Your horses got as far as Ranelagh , when they darted forward like mad things , and galloped away at so fearful a rate , that there seemed no other prospect for myself and my poor Edward but that of being dashed to pieces against the first object that impeded their progress , when a strange-looking man , —an Arab , a negro , or a Nubian , at least a black of some nation or other—at a signal from the count , whose domestic he is , suddenly seized and stopped the infuriated animals , even at the risk of being trampled to death himself ; and certainly he must have had a most wonderful escape .
“ Grimaud himself , understand ; and with the ten parts of Grimaud , which are not worth a ducatoon , I regained the diamond .
When he was alone he opened the door of the corridor and then that of the ante-chamber .
“ I will tell you , Mr. President .
“ Ah , you speak Spanish ? ” “ Enough , I think , to fulfill your highness ’ s wishes on this occasion. ” Meanwhile the prisoner had remained impassive and as if he had no understanding of what was taking place .
But , there , he is in the hands of Justice ; and , ” added he with a smile , “ she will take her own. ” So saying , he leaped into a boat , desiring to be rowed on board the _Pharaon_ , where M. Morrel had agreed to meet him .
The queen was in a morning gown , but it became her still ; for , like Diana of Poictiers and Ninon , Anne of Austria enjoyed the privilege of remaining ever beautiful ; nevertheless , this morning she looked handsomer than usual , for her eyes had all the sparkle inward satisfaction adds to expression .
While he was listening to this recital , delivered with the greatest simplicity , the duke looked from time to time at the young man with astonishment , as if he could not comprehend how so much prudence , courage , and devotedness could be allied with a countenance which indicated not more than twenty years .
Delightful !
“ One night , twenty years ago , my master fetched you from Bethune and conducted you to Armentieres. ” “ I know you well now , ” said the executioner ; “ you were one of the four grooms. ” “ Just so. ” “ Where do you come from now ? ” “ I was passing by and drew up at this inn to rest my horse .
and what is it to be ?
Spectre against spectre ! ” he murmured in a low voice , as he concluded his sentence .
“ Oh , yes , ” said the count , “ you are looking for the sailors. ” “ Yes , I paid them nothing , and yet they are gone. ” “ Never mind that , Maximilian , ” said Monte Cristo , smiling .
“ You are gathering your crop , sir ? ” said Monte Cristo , smiling .
Then , disguised in the clothes of the Marquis d ’ O—— , he had left the hotel , stumbling over the bodies of an officer and two guards who had been killed whilst defending the street door .
When they opened the window , they saw the poor lad lying senseless , with his head split by a blow with a pitchfork .
“ Give me a light. ” “ Shall I accompany you , monsieur ? ” “ No , it is unnecessary ; Bertuccio will show me a light. ” And Monte Cristo accompanied these words by the gift of two gold pieces , which produced a torrent of thanks and blessings from the concierge .
This affair , like all those in which the Count of Monte Cristo had interfered , caused a great sensation in Paris .
They had reached the ladder which led to the boat .
“ Pardon me , ” said he , smiling , “ pardon me my dear compatriot , but I had wholly forgotten you .
You say you fear nothing but death ? ” “ I did not say that I feared it ; I only said that death alone could check the execution of my plans. ” “ And old age ? ” “ My end will be achieved before I grow old. ” “ And madness ? ” “ I have been nearly mad ; and you know the axiom , —_non bis in idem_ .
“ Yet , ” stammered Dantès , wiping the perspiration from his brow , — “ yet I gave you two hundred francs when I left , three months ago. ” “ Yes , yes , Edmond , that is true , but you forgot at that time a little debt to our neighbor , Caderousse .
A part of the good abbé ’ s words , however , were wholly incomprehensible to him ; but , like the aurora which guides the navigator in northern latitudes , opened new vistas to the inquiring mind of the listener , and gave fantastic glimpses of new horizons , enabling him justly to estimate the delight an intellectual mind would have in following one so richly gifted as Faria along the heights of truth , where he was so much at home .
The audience felt that a startling revelation was to follow this ominous prelude .
D ’ Artagnan , in order that there might be no time lost , had saddled his horse himself .
Hitherto I have fancied myself merely waging war against circumstances , not men .
‘ If there is any left ! ’ ” murmured he .
Each examined his arms , and put them in order .
“ I hope , ” he whispered to him , “ that you will follow his majesty ’ s example and not get killed for your folly in this den. ” “ Set your mind at rest , ” replied Athos .
If Grimaud was slow in speaking , we know that he was quick to act ; he sprang to the door and shook it violently , but it was bolted on the other side .
Will our help come from you ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You are sure of it ? ” “ Yes. ” There was so much firmness in the look which gave this answer , no one could , at any rate , doubt his will , if they did his power .
If Bonaparte landed at Naples , the whole coalition would be on foot before he could even reach Piombino ; if he land in Tuscany , he will be in an unfriendly territory ; if he land in France , it must be with a handful of men , and the result of that is easily foretold , execrated as he is by the population .
Tiboulen and Lemaire were therefore the safest for Dantès ’ venture .
They walked arm in arm , occupying the whole width of the street and taking in every Musketeer they met , so that in the end it became a triumphal march .
Albert related it to his mother ; Château-Renaud recounted it at the Jockey Club , and Debray detailed it at length in the salons of the minister ; even Beauchamp accorded twenty lines in his journal to the relation of the count ’ s courage and gallantry , thereby celebrating him as the greatest hero of the day in the eyes of all the feminine members of the aristocracy .
These studs can not be trusted to anybody ; it must be done in the palace. ” “ Impossible , my Lord !
Athos approached and hung over the youth in an attitude full of tender melancholy ; he looked long on this young man , whose smiling mouth and half closed eyes bespoke soft dreams and lightest slumber , as if his guardian angel watched over him with solicitude and affection .
If the Abbé Busoni should by any accident return , think of me. ’ “ ‘ In another week you will have left Beaucaire , ’ remarked Caderousse , ‘ for the fair ends in a few days. ’ “ ‘ True , but that makes no difference .
“ Well , ” continued the cardinal , in an indifferent tone , “ the only thing to be sought for at this moment is some woman , handsome , young , and clever , who has cause of quarrel with the duke .
20169m Behind the penitents came a man of vast stature and proportions .
You will allow me to leave first ; then , after half an hour , you can go away in your turn. ” “ Yes , monseigneur .
That is what I want. ” “ Come , if you will only put this scheme into execution , and be steady , nothing could be better. ” “ Do you think so , M. Bossuet ?
Raoul had offered some opposition at first ; but D ’ Artagnan made use of the Comte de la Fere ’ s name , and after paying a visit to Madame de Chevreuse , Raoul started to rejoin the army .
You will not ?
How should I know what horse furniture is ? ” “ You should have left it to me , then , madame , who know what they are ; but you wished to be frugal , and consequently to lend at usury. ” “ It was wrong , Monsieur Porthos ; but I will repair that wrong , upon my word of honor. ” “ How so ? ” asked the Musketeer .
I was , as I told him , resolved to die of hunger .
Absent kings are very soon forgotten ; if he passes over into France his cause is lost. ” “ But , ” persisted the queen , “ if such be your advice and you have his interest at heart , send him help of men and money , for I can do nothing for him ; I have sold even to my last diamond to aid him .
Mazarin started , turned toward the Comte de la Fere , and looking for an instant at that grand and honest countenance , took the pen .
He had only time to get his hat and throw himself breathless into the closet when the procureur ’ s footstep was heard in the passage .
If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States , we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying , distributing , performing , displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed .
Nevertheless , his brow was armed with a severity more austere than ever .
The Lions ’ Den Chapter 108 .
And taking it from Felton , he cast a rapid glance over the paper , and perceiving that it was the one that had been mentioned to him , he placed it on the table , took a pen , and prepared to sign it .
“ Shall I swear to you , sir ? ” asked Maximilian .
As he approached he seemed to recognize the features of this individual .
“ I think not , ” replied Château-Renaud .
Can you believe so ? ” said Porthos , protruding his lips with contempt .
40070m “ From where we stood I could see in the middle of the lake a large blank mass ; it was the kiosk to which we were going .
“ But how have you become acquainted with all these details ? ” asked the president .
“ Do you know me , madame ? ” said he .
“ I was hidden behind that door , ” he said , “ which leads into the next house , which I have rented. ” Valentine turned her eyes away , and , with an indignant expression of pride and modest fear , exclaimed : “ Sir , I think you have been guilty of an unparalleled intrusion , and that what you call protection is more like an insult. ” “ Valentine , ” he answered , “ during my long watch over you , all I have observed has been what people visited you , what nourishment was prepared , and what beverage was served ; then , when the latter appeared dangerous to me , I entered , as I have now done , and substituted , in the place of the poison , a healthful draught ; which , instead of producing the death intended , caused life to circulate in your veins. ” “ Poison—death ! ” exclaimed Valentine , half believing herself under the influence of some feverish hallucination ; “ what are you saying , sir ? ” 50071m “ Hush , my child , ” said Monte Cristo , again placing his finger upon her lips , “ I did say poison and death .
Dantès made no resistance ; he was like a man in a dream ; he saw soldiers drawn up on the embankment ; he knew vaguely that he was ascending a flight of steps ; he was conscious that he passed through a door , and that the door closed behind him ; but all this indistinctly as through a mist .
The third proceeded to barricade the doors and windows , then returned , and the three united in stifling the cries of terror incited by the sight of these preparations , and then dragged Assunta feet foremost towards the brazier , expecting to wring from her an avowal of where her supposed treasure was secreted .
It is not , either , that my heart is less touched by him than any other ; that would be a schoolgirl ’ s reason , which I consider quite beneath me .
Ah !
I will leave the paternal home , I will give up all .
George Villiers placed himself before the glass , as we have said , restored the undulations to his beautiful hair , which the weight of his hat had disordered , twisted his mustache , and , his heart swelling with joy , happy and proud at being near the moment he had so long sighed for , he smiled upon himself with pride and hope .
Faria , who for so long a time had kept silence as to the treasure , now perpetually talked of it .
The weather was magnificent , and the excursion a treat .
0209m “ Since my imprisonment , ” said Faria , “ I have thought over all the most celebrated cases of escape on record .
“ I ’ m afraid we are prisoners , ” whispered D ’ Artagnan to his friend .
“ The prisoners are escaping !
It is for a consultation , which will last three hours at least .
Up to that time , whether from devotedness or from want of power to act against it , this maxim , without being generally adopted , nevertheless passed from theory into practice ; but the notes did it injury .
Madame de Saint-Méran Chapter 73 .
It was Planchet , but so completely transformed , thanks to the old clothes that the departing husband had left behind , that D ’ Artagnan himself could hardly recognize him .
“ God bless his majesty ! ” “ Yes , ” repeated the leader in a whisper , “ God bless his majesty ! ” and all these men , who had entered enraged , passed from anger to pity and blessed the royal infant in their turn .
The count took another spoon , and again dipped it into the golden box .
27. ” “ You mistrust me , then , ” said Dantès .
If you know a prayer , say it—for you are condemned , and you shall die. ” At these words , which left no hope , Milady raised herself in all her pride , and wished to speak ; but her strength failed her .
We say corroborated , because the brigadier was too experienced to be convinced by a single proof .
D ’ Artagnan had passed himself upon her as De Wardes , for whom she had conceived one of those tigerlike fancies common to women of her character .
I descended the staircase step by step ; the only thing I could not conquer was a strange trembling in my knees .
he would not .
“ Maximilian , ” said he , “ are your affections disengaged ? ” Morrel looked at Monte Cristo with astonishment .
Diavolo ! ” he exclaimed , “ I forgot the recommendation of De Comminges , who advised me to take a guard and place it at this door , in order not to put myself at the mercy of that four-headed combination of devils. ” And with a movement of impatience he turned to retrace his steps .
But do you mean to say you have not heard of this ?
Gentlemen , ” he continued , addressing the cavaliers , who became more and more numerous every instant ; “ gentlemen , encircle his eminence , that you may show him the greater honor .
But such as is my hermitage , it is at your disposal ; such as is my supper , it is yours to share , if you will .
“ Heyday ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , drawing his sword and taking refuge behind his horse ; “ are you not mistaken ?
“ Did you know that I am at liberty ? ” “ I knew it from the fountain-head—from Planchet .
“ At once , if you please. ” “ And you know who I am , without doubt ? ” “ I ?
Till tomorrow evening , then ! ’ “ ‘ Till tomorrow evening , then ! ’ replied I , allowing myself to fall , and biting the carpet with rage. ” Felton leaned for support upon a piece of furniture ; and Milady saw , with the joy of a demon , that his strength would fail him perhaps before the end of her recital .
It is one of the most desirable connections which could possibly be formed ; he possesses fortune , a high rank in society , and every personal qualification likely to render Valentine supremely happy , —his name , moreover , can not be wholly unknown to you .
Then , should anything appear to merit a more minute examination , Albert de Morcerf could follow up his researches by means of a small gate , similar to that close to the _concierge ’ s_ door , and which merits a particular description .
During the meal , which was excellent , and admirably served , Franz looked repeatedly at Albert , in order to observe the impressions which he doubted not had been made on him by the words of their entertainer ; but whether with his usual carelessness he had paid but little attention to him , whether the explanation of the Count of Monte Cristo with regard to duelling had satisfied him , or whether the events which Franz knew of had had their effect on him alone , he remarked that his companion did not pay the least regard to them , but on the contrary ate like a man who for the last four or five months had been condemned to partake of Italian cookery—that is , the worst in the world .
Bonacieux had flattered himself in believing himself worthy of St. Paul or of the Place de Grêve ; it was at the Traitor ’ s Cross that his journey and his destiny were about to end !
“ Oh ! ” he said , looking at the stone , “ this is the work of either Hercules or Porthos .
You know not , then , anything of your birth—you have never seen your mother ? ” “ Yes , my lord ; she came three times , whilst I was a child , to my nurse ’ s house ; I remember the last time she came as well as if it were to-day. ” “ You have a good memory , ” said Mazarin .
“ Drink a glass of port , ” said Aramis ; “ it will refresh you. ” “ Yes , let us drink , ” said Athos , anxious to make it up by hobnobbing with D ’ Artagnan , “ let us drink and get away from this hateful country .
“ My dear Albert , ” said Debray , rising , “ it is half-past two .
“ Dear Constance !
What is he looking at ?
In a few minutes Porthos had rejoined his companions , who were already in the boat ; but when , after they had all got in , it came to his turn , there was great danger that in putting his huge leg over the edge of the boat he would upset the little vessel .
Now , Madame Danglars feared Eugénie ’ s sagacity and the influence of Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly ; she had frequently observed the contemptuous expression with which her daughter looked upon Debray , —an expression which seemed to imply that she understood all her mother ’ s amorous and pecuniary relationships with the intimate secretary ; moreover , she saw that Eugénie detested Debray , not only because he was a source of dissension and scandal under the paternal roof , but because she had at once classed him in that catalogue of bipeds whom Plato endeavors to withdraw from the appellation of men , and whom Diogenes designated as animals upon two legs without feathers .
Vain and indiscreet , it was as easy to see through him as through a crystal .
Athos then arose from his chair , girded on his sword , enveloped himself in his cloak , and left the hôtel .
Valentine summoned every effort , and breathed with that regular respiration which announces tranquil sleep .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” he cried ; “ Vade retro Satanas ! ” “ So , my dear Bazin ! ” said the officer , laughing , “ this is the way you receive an old friend. ” “ Sir , ” replied Bazin , “ the true friends of a Christian are those who aid him in working out his salvation , not those who hinder him in doing so. ” “ I don ’ t understand you , Bazin ; nor can I see how I can be a stumbling-block in the way of your salvation , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The king looked at his old friend with tears in his eyes ; undid the Order of the Saint Esprit which he wore , to honor the two Frenchmen who were with him , and passed it around Winter ’ s neck , who received on his knees this striking proof of his sovereign ’ s confidence and friendship .
Marry , forsooth , people don ’ t die of hunger here. ” And Aramis , drawing in the ladder , closed the window .
Chapter XXXIX .
When the lady of the red cushion came close to Porthos , Porthos drew his dripping hand from the font .
“ No , no , ” cried Bertuccio , setting down the lantern at the angle of the interior wall .
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help , see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org .
And , to complete the whole , Haydée was in the very springtide and fulness of youthful charms—she had not yet numbered more than nineteen or twenty summers .
“ February 5th , 1815 ! ” said he ; “ it is the day my father was murdered. ” Valentine and Villefort were dumb ; the eye of the old man alone seemed to say clearly , “ Go on. ” “ But it was on leaving this club , ” said he , “ my father disappeared. ” Noirtier ’ s eye continued to say , “ Read. ” He resumed : — “ ‘ The undersigned Louis-Jacques Beaurepaire , lieutenant-colonel of artillery , Étienne Duchampy , general of brigade , and Claude Lecharpal , keeper of woods and forests , declare , that on the 4th of February , a letter arrived from the Island of Elba , recommending to the kindness and the confidence of the Bonapartist Club , General Flavien de Quesnel , who having served the emperor from 1804 to 1814 was supposed to be devoted to the interests of the Napoleon dynasty , notwithstanding the title of baron which Louis XVIII .
Athos ’ s horse , where is that ? ” “ In the stable. ” “ How much is it worth ? ” “ Fifty pistoles at most. ” “ It ’ s worth eighty .
This Frondist duchess trusted so confidently to the power of her fine eyes , that she could not doubt their influence even over Monsieur de Condé ; and the chronicles of the time aver that her confidence was justified .
He was so pale when he appeared at the door of the ball-room , that Valentine ran to him , saying : “ Oh , father , some misfortune has happened ! ” “ Your grandmamma has just arrived , Valentine , ” said M. de Villefort .
If the emissaries of the cardinal arrive , he will take no notice ; if it is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan and his friends , he will bring them to us. ” “ He knows them , then ? ” “ Doubtless .
“ Yes , sir. ” “ Come nearer , ” said the magistrate , with a patronizing wave of the hand , “ and tell me to what circumstance I owe the honor of this visit. ” “ Do you not guess , monsieur ? ” asked Morrel .
“ Eugénie !
Will the marquis honor me by a few moments ’ private conversation ? ” “ Ah , it is really a serious matter , then ? ” asked the marquis , remarking the cloud on Villefort ’ s brow .
Madame , we are yours , body and soul. ” “ Oh , sirs , ” said the queen , moved even to tears , “ this is the first time for five years I have felt the least approach to joy or hope .
You may see matters differently , D ’ Artagnan , and think otherwise .
That king , who was so grand , so sublime in the hour of death , meeting his fate with a smile of resignation on his lips , now in that gloomy hour wiped away a tear which had fallen on the table and quivered on the gold embroidered cloth .
They were said , however , to be of good extraction .
When she was only about three steps from him , he turned his head round , fixing his eyes steadfastly upon the lady with the red cushion , who had risen and was approaching , followed by her black boy and her woman .
“ Which route must I take ? ” demanded D ’ Artagnan , in his turn .
They expected to hear some mention made of D ’ Artagnan or of Porthos , but every one was engrossed by articles and reforms .
By the aid of the lightning they perceived the village of Erquinheim .
“ Of what ? ” asked the priest , anxiously and eagerly .
“ Ah ! ” said Mordaunt , with a sneer , “ there ’ s one who is afraid. ” “ Zounds ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , bounding toward him , “ who says that Athos is afraid ? ” “ Let him have his say , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , with a smile of sadness and contempt .
Once for all , Tréville had placed his stable at D ’ Artagnan ’ s service .
“ My dear mother , ” said he , “ do you know if M. de Morcerf has any enemy ? ” Mercédès started ; she noticed that the young man did not say “ my father. ” “ My son , ” she said , “ persons in the count ’ s situation have many secret enemies .
At length the shutter closed .
Noirtier wishes to speak. ” “ Yes , ” indicated Noirtier , with an expression the more terrible , from all his faculties being centred in his glance .
He will , indeed give us the favor of his company ; you will , I hope , be grateful for it ; Porthos , do not lose sight of his eminence. ” Aramis then joined Athos and D ’ Artagnan , who were consulting together .
The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund .
I ought to meet death on the same spot where happiness was once all my own. ” “ Alas , ” said Monte Cristo , “ your words sear and embitter my heart , the more so as you have every reason to hate me .
Then he kissed and rekissed twenty times the lines traced by the hand of his beautiful mistress .
Richest , my dear fellow ! ” And D ’ Artagnan chinked the remainder of his pistoles in his pocket .
What do you intend to do ?
I am doing a little sum in arithmetic. ” “ In arithmetic ? ” “ Yes ; I am calculating—by the way , Morcerf , that indirectly concerns you—I am calculating what the house of Danglars must have gained by the last rise in Haiti bonds ; from 206 they have risen to 409 in three days , and the prudent banker had purchased at 206 ; therefore he must have made 300,000 livres. ” “ That is not his biggest scoop , ” said Morcerf ; “ did he not make a million in Spaniards this last year ? ” “ My dear fellow , ” said Lucien , “ here is the Count of Monte Cristo , who will say to you , as the Italians do , — “ ‘ Denaro e santità , Metà della metà. ’ 9 “ When they tell me such things , I only shrug my shoulders and say nothing. ” “ But you were speaking of Haitians ? ” said Monte Cristo .
When he arose a second time , he was fifty paces from where he had first sunk .
Some complaints arose from the crowd and were addressed this time to the king as well as the minister .
The acquaintances one makes in travelling have a sort of claim on one ; they everywhere expect to receive the same attention which you once paid them by chance , as though the civilities of a passing hour were likely to awaken any lasting interest in favor of the man in whose society you may happen to be thrown in the course of your journey .
in gold , silver , or notes ? ” “ Half in gold , and the other half in bank-notes , if you please , ” said the count , rising from his seat .
“ An Englishman you say ? ” “ Yes , ” replied Maximilian , “ an Englishman , who represented himself as the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French , at Rome .
“ Will you not even say you will see me again ? ” he asked .
On entering his hôtel , M. de Tréville thought it best to be first in making the complaint .
“ Why , what can have happened ? ” he exclaimed , “ what has thus disturbed you ?
“ By the way , ” said Athos , “ take some pains with your toilet , Raoul ; I want you to be approved. ” “ I hope , sir , ” replied the youth , smiling , “ that there ’ s no idea of a marriage for me ; you know of my engagement to Louise ? ” Athos , in his turn , smiled also .
Millionaires like yourself , my lord , are rare in France. ” “ Alas ! ” said De Winter , “ I am at this moment as poor as he is , if not poorer .
The abbess only crossed herself , without approving or disapproving .
The fresh earth excavated during their present work , and which would have entirely blocked up the old passage , was thrown , by degrees and with the utmost precaution , out of the window in either Faria ’ s or Dantès ’ cell , the rubbish being first pulverized so finely that the night wind carried it far away without permitting the smallest trace to remain .
Dantès saw that he must attack the wedge .
“ No , sir ; before all who are here. ” Albert ’ s witnesses looked at each other .
There was no fear of her falling asleep .
Are you indisposed , or have you forgotten the glances you favored me with at the ball of Mme .
The pike , eels , and carp eat greedily always , as everybody knows—well , they feast on the vulture .
I believed your heart noble enough to enable a friendship of twenty years to overcome an affront of a quarter of an hour .
Besides , the manner in which Beauchamp had closed the conference left a bitter recollection in his heart .
At Verberie , Raoul desired Olivain to make some inquiry about the young man who was preceding them ; he had been observed to pass only three-quarters of an hour previously , but he was well mounted , as the tavern-keeper had already said , and rode at a rapid pace .
Amongst us you will not meet with any of those episodes with which your adventurous existence has so familiarized you ; our Chimborazo is Mortmartre , our Himalaya is Mount Valérien , our Great Desert is the plain of Grenelle , where they are now boring an artesian well to water the caravans .
By his advice a decree from parliament summoned the citizens to lay down their arms and demolish the barricades .
Port Wine .
He had forgotten not one of the incidents of the first journey , and he looked upon everybody he met on the road as an enemy .
Where does he live ? ” “ Rue Férou , two steps from here. ” “ Let us go ! ” Both resumed their way .
I am not your uncle , I know you not. ” “ My uncle , ” replied Mordaunt , with his harsh and bantering tone , “ you are mistaken ; you will not have me turned out this time as you did in London—you dare not .
Bonacieux pronounced these words with tears in her eyes .
“ Well , ” asked he , as soon as they were by themselves , “ tell me what it is ? ” “ An affair of the greatest importance , that demands my immediate presence in Paris .
In this valley were magnificent gardens planted by Hassen-ben-Sabah , and in these gardens isolated pavilions .
Bonacieux recovered her senses .
That is the reason that by the side of my misfortunes yours appear to me mere mischances ; that is why my dreadful position makes yours appear enviable .
Section 5 .
May I reckon on you as an auxiliary ? ” D ’ Artagnan at once perceived the ground which the vindictive creature wished to reach .
Excuse my talking of family matters , but as I shall have the honor of introducing you to the count , I tell you this to prevent you making any allusions to this picture .
“ What is it ? ” asked Mazarin .
Monsieur de Beaufort was at supper , but he rose quickly on hearing the two friends announced .
How can such enormous jars have been manufactured ? ” “ Ah !
She wrote two lines , sealed the letter with her private seal , and gave it to Mme .
But his sleep was a nightmare , which might be guessed by the incoherent manner in which he sometimes snored and sometimes snorted .
The retreat of Rocca Bianca was at the top of a small mountain , which no doubt in former days had been a volcano—an extinct volcano before the days when Remus and Romulus had deserted Alba to come and found the city of Rome .
At the end of an hour she was completely out of sight ; at least , it was impossible for the wounded man to see her any longer from the spot where he was .
At their approach Planchet came out leading the two horses .
Queen !
Franz remarked , while he gave these details , that Albert seemed to have something to ask of him , but that he was unwilling to ask it .
At eight o ’ clock in the morning Morrel entered their chamber .
Serve us up the best supper you can , and especially give us some good wine. ” Bazin bowed low , sighed , and left the room .
I carry no sword this morning and can not return home to procure one. ” “ No , ” said Lord de Winter , “ we are going to pay a visit to Her Majesty the Queen of England. ” “ Oh , very well , ” replied Aramis ; then bending his face down to Athos ’ s ear , “ what is the object of this visit ? ” continued he .
Do you think it is to replace him on the throne that Cromwell has paid for him two hundred thousand pounds sterling ?
“ Will you tell me that your three damned Musketeers , Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , and your youngster from Béarn , have not fallen , like so many furies , upon poor Bernajoux , and have not maltreated him in such a fashion that probably by this time he is dead ?
This was now all changed .
So many dreadful things have happened to me lately that I am on the verge of madness. ” “ Has anyone besides me seen Madame de Saint-Méran ? ” “ No. ” “ Has anything been sent for from a chemist ’ s that I have not examined ? ” “ Nothing. ” “ Had Madame de Saint-Méran any enemies ? ” “ Not to my knowledge. ” “ Would her death affect anyone ’ s interest ? ” “ It could not indeed , my daughter is her only heiress—Valentine alone .
The Inquiry M. de Villefort kept the promise he had made to Madame Danglars , to endeavor to find out how the Count of Monte Cristo had discovered the history of the house at Auteuil .
that ’ s a different thing ; yes , I know there are traditions of that sort , ” said Comminges .
In the meanwhile , as the godfather is a second father , we beg the reader to lay to our account , and not to that of the Comte de la Fère , the pleasure or the _ennui_ he may experience .
But his son came in .
‘ They are approaching , ’ said she ; ‘ perhaps they bring us peace and liberty ! ’ “ ‘ What do you fear , Vasiliki ? ’ said Selim , in a voice at once so gentle and yet so proud .
You know me well enough. ” “ We no longer know anyone , madame. ” “ You must be mad , my friend , ” said the baroness .
I thought I had crushed you , madame ; but either I was deceived or hell has resuscitated you ! ” Milady at these words , which recalled frightful remembrances , hung down her head with a suppressed groan .
It would be long indeed ere you would find so lucrative a post as that you have now the good fortune to fill .
Guides are useful people , who will turn their hands to anything .
Do you hear ? ” “ Ah , Valentine , ” said Maximilian , “ give me but one finger through this opening in the grating , one finger , the littlest finger of all , that I may have the happiness of kissing it. ” “ Maximilian , we said we would be to each other as two voices , two shadows. ” “ As you will , Valentine. ” “ Shall you be happy if I do what you wish ? ” “ Oh , yes ! ” Valentine mounted on a bench , and passed not only her finger but her whole hand through the opening .
Nevertheless , he pressed D ’ Artagnan ’ s hand , and said to him : “ You are an honest youth ; but at the present moment I can only do for you that which I just now offered .
We shall be carried in triumph. ” In fact , as we have said , the whole camp was in motion .
As soon as this organization was established , they set about driving the English from the Isle .
“ Onward ! ” cried Porthos .
the poor fellow does not know the purpose for which I am here. ” He then made a sign for Mousqueton to come to him .
She became excessively pale , leaned her beautiful hand upon a _console_ , which hand appeared then like one of wax , and looking at the king with terror in her eyes , she was unable to reply by a single syllable .
“ Make your mind easy , ” resumed Athos , “ we are all faithful servants of his majesty. ” “ Is what you tell me true ? ” asked the wounded man .
But hark !
“ Do you agree with Aramis ? ” “ Not at all , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I am precisely of the contrary opinion. ” “ What !
A good mother can not depart without her son. ” Villefort could not believe his eyes , —he could not believe his reason ; he dragged himself towards the child ’ s body , and examined it as a lioness contemplates its dead cub .
and Alexander VI .
Morrel longed intensely for the moment when he should hear Valentine say , “ Here I am , Maximilian ; come and help me. ” He had arranged everything for her escape ; two ladders were hidden in the clover-field ; a cabriolet was ordered for Maximilian alone , without a servant , without lights ; at the turning of the first street they would light the lamps , as it would be foolish to attract the notice of the police by too many precautions .
The hands were white , but without delicacy ; the feet did not bespeak the woman of quality .
This picturesque attire set him off to great advantage ; and when he had bound the scarf around his waist , and when his hat , placed coquettishly on one side , let fall on his shoulder a stream of ribbons , Franz was forced to confess that costume has much to do with the physical superiority we accord to certain nations .
Still I remember he danced three times with her at Madame de Morcerf ’ s .
Steel is for gentlemen. ” And seizing the butcher by the throat : “ Porthos , ” said he , “ kill this fellow for me with a single blow. ” Porthos raised his terrible fist , which whistled through the air like a sling , and the portentous mass fell with a smothered crash on the insulter ’ s skull and crushed it .
For one second , D ’ Artagnan thought the man had some evil design and he put his hand to his sword ; but in the movement made by the man in stooping a portion of his face was uncovered and D ’ Artagnan recognized the coadjutor .
The Carriage of Monsieur le Coadjuteur .
He would have pardoned me , he would certainly have pardoned me , if I had not said anything to him about that cursed baldric—in ambiguous words , it is true , but rather drolly ambiguous .
“ Now , madame , nothing remains to me except to proffer my respectful homage , ” said Chatillon , who felt confused and ashamed beneath the stern gaze of Athos .
It was time ; for they had scarcely sailed half a league , when D ’ Artagnan saw a flash and heard a detonation .
Tomorrow I will come and announce to you the departure of my messenger. ” Lord de Winter rose , saluted her ironically , and went out .
“ Here ! ” cried Porthos , “ here ! ” Porthos foresaw that if D ’ Artagnan was called away he should remain the sole possessor of the bed .
“ The secret is , ” said Athos , “ that I saw Milady last night. ” D ’ Artagnan was lifting a glass to his lips ; but at the name of Milady , his hand trembled so , that he was obliged to put the glass on the ground again for fear of spilling the contents. ” “ You saw your wi— ” “ Hush ! ” interrupted Athos .
two or three years perhaps. ” “ So much the better , ” cried Porthos .
He drew back a step , and hung down his head , without , however , ceasing to look at her , as if , fascinated by this strange creature , he could not detach his eyes from her eyes .
The letter is still to be seen , for it is in Franz d ’ Épinay ’ s possession , signed by me , and with a postscript of M. Luigi Vampa .
For my part , monsieur , I am Catholic—my father , faithful to his principles , having made my elder brother a Huguenot. ” “ And what was the end of this worthy man ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
When he had gained the angle of the street , he turned .
“ Yes , ” he answered , “ if a fortune brings consolation , I ought to be consoled ; I am rich. ” “ So rich , dear sir , that your fortune resembles the pyramids ; if you wished to demolish them you could not , and if it were possible , you would not dare ! ” Danglars smiled at the good-natured pleasantry of the count .
End of the Port Wine Mystery .
“ Are the half of the sum , mother ; the other will be paid in a year. ” Mercédès raised her eyes to heaven with an expression it would be impossible to describe , and tears , which had hitherto been restrained , now yielded to her emotion , and ran down her cheeks .
I have worn my cuirass these twenty years , kept down in this inferior rank , without going forward or backward , hardly half living .
27. ” “ Yes ; No .
The Ball Chapter 71 .
“ Is it absolutely necessary , then , to send the money to Luigi Vampa ? ” asked the young man , looking fixedly in his turn at the count .
Was he to be thus stopped at the beginning , and was he to wait inactive until his fellow workman had completed his task ?
“ Ah , that is really original , ” said Beauchamp .
“ And how , ” said Harrison , laughing , “ did this serious calamity of going without breakfast happen to you ? ” “ In a very simple manner , colonel , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Apropos , should Mazarin speak to you about me , tell him that I should have requested you to acquaint him that in a short time he will see whether I am , as he says , too old for action. ” And Rochefort went away with one of those diabolical smiles which used formerly to make D ’ Artagnan shudder , but D ’ Artagnan could now see it without alarm , and smiling in his turn , with an expression of melancholy which the recollections called up by that smile could , perhaps , alone give to his countenance , he said : “ Go , demon , do what thou wilt !
“ He has slain his uncle ! ” he murmured .
I have done this , and am , monsieur , with great respect , Your very humble and obedient servant , GODEAU , _Purveyor of the Musketeers_ “ That ’ s all well ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ All this is very extraordinary , ” said Château-Renaud ; “ still , what I admire the most , I confess , is the marvellous promptitude with which your orders are executed .
Tell me how , Tréville—you know how I delight in accounts of war and fighting. ” And Louis XIII .
“ He has such a short neck , ” said she .
Noirtier , burning with impatience and terror , was in despair at his utter inability to help his old domestic , whom he regarded more in the light of a friend than a servant .
Like one of those drunken satyrs in the pictures of Rubens .
d ’ Aiguillon , Marion de Lorme , and several other gay women .
“ My friend , ” continued Morrel , “ you named the fifth of October as the end of the period of waiting , —today is the fifth of October , ” he took out his watch , “ it is now nine o ’ clock , —I have yet three hours to live. ” “ Be it so , ” said the count , “ come. ” Morrel mechanically followed the count , and they had entered the grotto before he perceived it .
From what he has told me , I know you now .
Danglars ’ Signature Chapter 105 .
As you say , Mazarin is a knave .
“ No , ” said she , “ I do not remember it just at this moment ; but if it should occur to me presently , I will tell you. ” Albert was on the point of pronouncing his father ’ s name , when Monte Cristo gently held up his finger in token of reproach ; the young man recollected his promise , and was silent .
“ Come in , gentlemen , come in , ” called D ’ Artagnan ; “ you are here in my apartment , and we are all faithful servants of the king and cardinal. ” “ Then , gentlemen , you will not oppose our executing the orders we have received ? ” asked one who appeared to be the leader of the party .
“ Well ? ” “ One of these two men said , ‘ He must certainly be at Noisy , or be coming there this evening , for I have seen his servant. ’ “ ‘ Art thou sure ? ’ said the man in the cloak .
They all four entered the tent ; they had no plan ready—they must think of one .
Two horsemen going out as Athos and Aramis entered were obliged to give place to them .
Her first movement was repellent .
Some few minutes had elapsed , and the stranger began to show manifest signs of impatience , when a slight noise was heard outside the aperture in the roof , and almost immediately a dark shadow seemed to obstruct the flood of light that had entered it , and the figure of a man was clearly seen gazing with eager scrutiny on the immense space beneath him ; then , as his eye caught sight of him in the mantle , he grasped a floating mass of thickly matted boughs , and glided down by their help to within three or four feet of the ground , and then leaped lightly on his feet .
It was Planchet , who brought into play profitably the recollections of the regiment of Piedmont .
It was already too late .
Five minutes after the door had been closed on Morrel ’ s entrance , it was again opened for the count .
While we can not and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements , we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate .
“ Did the people shout at all ? ” Cromwell asked .
“ Well , has anybody come out ? ” “ No , but somebody has gone in. ” “ A man or a woman ? ” “ A man. ” “ Ah !
help ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ stop—my horse has the staggers. ” In an instant the horse ’ s eyes grew bloodshot and he was white with foam .
Are you sure ? ” “ That she is called so ?
you , a Frondeur ! ” “ On my word of honor , ” said Athos , “ one must be either a Mazarinist or a Frondeur .
He cherished the thought of the duel , hoping to conceal its true cause even from his seconds .
Your Majesty is bored ?
Go to the Count of Monte Cristo , Avenue des Champs-Élysées , on the 26th of May , at seven o ’ clock in the evening , and demand of him your father .
Charles shuddered .
I do not wish you to be seen leaving ; our interview must be kept secret. ” Mordaunt followed Bernouin , who led him through the adjacent chamber and left him with a doorkeeper , showing him the way out .
“ _Diable ! _ ” A pallor overspread the young man ’ s forehead , and he looked around him with anxiety .
And therefore Marie came seeking hospitality from the guest of the good abbé and not from the good abbé himself. ” “ And that cavalier , that guest , that nobleman who arrived before she came ? ” “ It was I , the Comte de la Fere , ” said Athos , rising and bowing respectfully to the Duchess de Chevreuse .
As long as he was in the city , Planchet kept at the respectful distance he had imposed upon himself ; but as soon as the road began to be more lonely and dark , he drew softly nearer , so that when they entered the Bois de Boulogne he found himself riding quite naturally side by side with his master .
And how does France appear in your eyes , accustomed as they have been to gaze on such enchanted scenes ? ” “ I think it is a fine country , ” said Haydée , “ but I see France as it really is , because I look on it with the eyes of a woman ; whereas my own country , which I can only judge of from the impression produced on my childish mind , always seems enveloped in a vague atmosphere , which is luminous or otherwise , according as my remembrances of it are sad or joyous. ” “ So young , ” said Albert , forgetting at the moment the Count ’ s command that he should ask no questions of the slave herself , “ is it possible that you can have known what suffering is except by name ? ” Haydée turned her eyes towards Monte Cristo , who , making at the same time some imperceptible sign , murmured : “ Εἰπέ—speak. ” “ Nothing is ever so firmly impressed on the mind as the memory of our early childhood , and with the exception of the two scenes I have just described to you , all my earliest reminiscences are fraught with deepest sadness. ” 40068m “ Speak , speak , signora , ” said Albert , “ I am listening with the most intense delight and interest to all you say. ” Haydée answered his remark with a melancholy smile .
“ It is then a service which you propose to render us , count ? ” asked Anne of Austria , after a moment ’ s silence .
‘ If he send me his poniard , it will signify that the emperor ’ s intentions are not favorable , and I am to set fire to the powder ; if , on the contrary , he send me his ring , it will be a sign that the emperor pardons him , and I am to extinguish the match and leave the magazine untouched. ’ — ‘ My friend , ’ said my mother , ‘ when your master ’ s orders arrive , if it is the poniard which he sends , instead of despatching us by that horrible death which we both so much dread , you will mercifully kill us with this same poniard , will you not ? ’ — ‘ Yes , Vasiliki , ’ replied Selim tranquilly .
But beneath the ground floor , stretching out into the island , was a large subterranean cavern , to which my mother , myself , and the women were conducted .
He took his fowling-piece , and began to hunt over the island with the air of a man who is fulfilling a duty , rather than enjoying a pleasure ; and at the end of a quarter of an hour he had killed a goat and two kids .
Have my valise carried to the Muid d ’ Amour , Rue des Bourdonnais .
Then , after seeing her eyes closed , and hearing her breathe gently , he believed she had dropped asleep , and left the apartment on tiptoe , closing the door after him with the utmost precaution .
“ I have formed an acquaintance , thanks to my good fortune , with many noted persons , and have , at least for the moment , a crowd of friends .
One of the persons whose conversation I overheard was the master of the house ; the other , the physician .
“ Petition the minister. ” “ Oh , I know what that is ; the minister receives two hundred petitions every day , and does not read three. ” “ That is true ; but he will read a petition countersigned and presented by me. ” “ And will you undertake to deliver it ? ” “ With the greatest pleasure .
Is it the custom in Marseilles for sons to keep their fathers waiting in their anterooms ? ” “ Father ! ” cried Villefort , “ then I was not deceived ; I felt sure it must be you. ” “ Well , then , if you felt so sure , ” replied the new-comer , putting his cane in a corner and his hat on a chair , “ allow me to say , my dear Gérard , that it was not very filial of you to keep me waiting at the door. ” “ Leave us , Germain , ” said Villefort .
The priest stole the sacred vases , and sold them ; but as they were preparing to escape together , they were both arrested .
“ Yes , but let us understand each other , ” returned Athos , seriously .
At the first word , before I had even mentioned your father ’ s name ” — “ ‘ Ah , ’ said he .
And this is the more strange , since the least contradiction keeps him awake all night. ” “ Grief has stunned him , ” replied d ’ Avrigny ; and they both returned thoughtfully to the procureur ’ s study .
“ Under the cuirass the hump will not be seen .
“ There is nobody within , ” said Bonacieux .
Now , the Scripture says positively , ‘ Make a sacrifice unto the Lord. ’ ” “ That is true , ” said his antagonists .
Now , she thought , they could not long delay coming to clear the table , and that Felton would then reappear .
On entering the room , Noirtier ’ s eyes met those of the abbé , and no doubt he read some particular expression in them , for he remained in the room .
“ You conducted him to the wounded man and you had time to observe him , and perhaps you would know him again were you to meet him. ” “ Yes , yes ! ” cried both young men .
Lord de Winter took a chair , drew it toward her , and sat down close beside her .
One of those three members was the coachman who had driven them there .
If the cardinal does not hold you in high admiration for the affair of London , he entertains a great hatred for you ; but as , considering everything , he can not accuse you openly , and as hatred must be satisfied , particularly when it ’ s a cardinal ’ s hatred , take care of yourself .
The next morning , however , just as he removed his bed from the wall , he heard three knocks ; he threw himself on his knees .
Is that not true , Monsieur Bonacieux ?
The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian In his whole life , perhaps , Franz had never before experienced so sudden an impression , so rapid a transition from gayety to sadness , as in this moment .
I may be mistaken , but I believe that Raoul will be as accomplished a gentleman as our degenerate age could display. ” The remembrance of Milady recurred to D ’ Artagnan .
What new victim is going to accuse you of weakness before God ? ” A mournful sob burst from Villefort ’ s heart ; he approached the doctor , and seizing his arm , — “ Valentine , ” said he , “ it is Valentine ’ s turn ! ” 40284m “ Your daughter ! ” cried d ’ Avrigny with grief and surprise .
Oh , it was a touching superstition , monsieur , and although I did not myself believe it , I would not for the world have destroyed my father ’ s faith .
Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1 .
“ I hear , ” said Aramis , “ but I understand neither the noise nor the cry of pain. ” “ I know not who can have uttered the cry , ” said the king , “ but the noise is easily understood .
Before daybreak M. de Wardes must take his departure , still in obscurity .
He took the arm of Château-Renaud , and turned towards the vault , where the attendants had already placed the two coffins .
Franz had been to announce the ceremony , and Madame de Villefort had also written to beg the count to excuse her not inviting him ; the death of M. de Saint-Méran and the dangerous illness of his widow would cast a gloom over the meeting which she would regret should be shared by the count whom she wished every happiness .
“ Eh , it was that that did the business ; after pitching heavily for twelve hours we sprung a leak .
I do not wish to be left alone. ” “ Mother , ” said the young man , “ you know how gladly I would obey your wish , but an urgent and important affair obliges me to leave you for the whole evening. ” “ Well , ” replied Mercédès , sighing , “ go , Albert ; I will not make you a slave to your filial piety. ” Albert pretended he did not hear , bowed to his mother , and quitted her .
“ Cheer up , ” said she to Noirtier .
“ Ah ! ” cried he , on perceiving D ’ Artagnan , “ ah !
My family has sought consideration in this alliance with M. de Villefort ; all I seek is happiness. ” Valentine imperceptibly thanked him , while two silent tears rolled down her cheeks .
“ You appear quite aghast .
It was Porthos .
Then three or four shots were fired .
“ I must confess to you , count , ” said Danglars , “ that I have hitherto imagined myself acquainted with the degree of all the great fortunes of Europe , and still wealth such as yours has been wholly unknown to me .
Asmodeus—that diabolical personage , who would have been created by every fertile imagination if Le Sage had not acquired the priority in his great masterpiece—would have enjoyed a singular spectacle , if he had lifted up the roof of the little house in the Rue Saint-Germain-des-Prés , while Debray was casting up his figures .
“ Your affectionate “ ANNE ” Buckingham collected all his remaining strength to listen to the reading of the letter ; then , when it was ended , as if he had met with a bitter disappointment , he asked , “ Have you nothing else to say to me by the living voice , Laporte ? ” “ The queen charged me to tell you to watch over yourself , for she had advice that your assassination would be attempted. ” “ And is that all—is that all ? ” replied Buckingham , impatiently .
“ Perhaps , when all is considered , you are right .
“ The chances of war , ” said Athos , “ are many , but be assured we shall take no improper advantage of them. ” “ No , but we shall make use of them , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Twenty minutes afterwards a carriage stopped at the house , a lady alighted in a black or dark blue dress , and always thickly veiled ; she passed like a shadow through the lodge , and ran upstairs without a sound escaping under the touch of her light foot .
The cavalier made a movement as if to follow the carriage ; but D ’ Artagnan , whose anger , already excited , was much increased by recognizing in him the Englishman of Amiens who had won his horse and had been very near winning his diamond of Athos , caught at his bridle and stopped him .
The people , kept back by Louvieres , had not made another step forward ; but the awful murmuring , which indicates an angry people , continued .
He was one of those English tourists who consume a large fortune in travelling .
Besides , our supper can ’ t delay you much .
I recollect. ” “ Then I paid the host six. ” “ What a brute of a host !
I shut my eyes , and I can see you as you then were ; I open them again , and I see what you are now—a hundred times more beautiful ! ” “ What folly , ” murmured Anne of Austria , who had not the courage to find fault with the duke for having so well preserved her portrait in his heart , “ what folly to feed a useless passion with such remembrances ! ” “ And upon what then must I live ?
You must not weep , no , you must not groan , you must tremble ! ” “ What can you mean ? ” asked Madame Danglars , shuddering .
M. Morrel , at his death , left 500,000 francs , which were divided between my sister and myself , for we were his only children .
He listened to know whence this sound could proceed .
The host clasped his hands and looked around him suspiciously , whilst Grimaud knit his brows and approached the wounded man , whose worn , hard features awoke in his mind such awful recollections of the past .
Her daughter , during the severest cold , was obliged for want of fire to remain in bed .
“ Silence , silence , begone ! ” said Kitty .
“ If he tells the baron , ” said she , “ I am lost—for the baron , who knows very well that I shall not kill myself , will place me before him with a knife in my hand , and he will discover that all this despair is but acted. ” She placed herself before the glass , and regarded herself attentively ; never had she appeared more beautiful .
“ Ah , it is certainly you ! ” he cried .
But now we must part .
The governor of the Bastile was Monsieur du Tremblay , the brother of the famous Capuchin , Joseph , that fearful favorite of Richelieu ’ s , who went by the name of the Gray Cardinal .
Scarcely was the captain ’ s breath out of his body when he assumed the command without consulting anyone , and he caused us to lose a day and a half at the Island of Elba , instead of making for Marseilles direct. ” 0025m “ As to taking command of the vessel , ” replied Morrel , “ that was his duty as captain ’ s mate ; as to losing a day and a half off the Island of Elba , he was wrong , unless the vessel needed repairs. ” “ The vessel was in as good condition as I am , and as , I hope you are , M. Morrel , and this day and a half was lost from pure whim , for the pleasure of going ashore , and nothing else. ” “ Dantès , ” said the shipowner , turning towards the young man , “ come this way ! ” “ In a moment , sir , ” answered Dantès , “ and I ’ m with you. ” Then calling to the crew , he said , “ Let go ! ” The anchor was instantly dropped , and the chain ran rattling through the port-hole .
Order whatever you like for supper—the only thing I specify is one of those pies ; and tell the confectioner that I will promise him my custom if he excels this time in his pies—not only now , but when I leave my prison. ” “ Then you think you will some day leave it ? ” said La Ramee .
My God , it is I—I—and this fellow who will help me to avenge myself. ” Chapter LVI .
Chapter VIII .
Save your skin ; begone quickly. ” D ’ Artagnan did not budge .
“ Take notice , captain , ” he continued , giving Planchet his expected title , “ take notice that one of the three men who just now went out from here told me privately to distrust these gentlemen. ” “ And I , ” said Planchet , with dignity , “ I know them and I answer for them. ” As he said this , he pressed Grimaud ’ s hand , who seemed honored by the distinction .
free without my aid !
“ Teresa uttered a cry of admiration .
A concierge waited at the door to exhibit to visitors this monument of curiosity , once a scene of terror .
‘ Mamma , mamma , ’ said I , ‘ are we really to be killed ? ’ And at the sound of my voice the slaves redoubled their cries and prayers and lamentations .
“ Oh , yes , ” replied the count ; “ understand me , I would fight a duel for a trifle , for an insult , for a blow ; and the more so that , thanks to my skill in all bodily exercises , and the indifference to danger I have gradually acquired , I should be almost certain to kill my man .
Grimaud had , indeed , during twenty-two years of service , seen his master extricate himself from so many difficulties that nothing less than Athos ’ s imminent death was likely to make him uneasy .
“ Thank you ! ” cried he , throwing himself on his horse .
Before she went to bed she had pondered , analyzed , turned on all sides , examined on all points , the words , the steps , the gestures , the signs , and even the silence of her interlocutors ; and of this profound , skillful , and anxious study the result was that Felton , everything considered , appeared the more vulnerable of her two persecutors .
I was told there were such at the last exhibition. ” “ He has simply a mahogany secretaire , in which the key is always kept. ” “ And he is not robbed ? ” “ No ; his servants are all devoted to him. ” “ There ought to be some money in that secretaire ? ” “ There may be .
Well , my friend , nothing now is lacking except that you should feel remorse for having killed that fellow. ” “ Hush ! ” said Athos , putting a finger on his lips , with the sad smile peculiar to him ; “ let us talk no more of Mordaunt—it will bring bad luck. ” And Athos set forward toward Charenton , followed closely by Aramis .
“ You are right , sir , ” replied the governor ; “ and this remark proves that you have deeply considered the subject .
what are my servants ?
“ Leave him with me , ” replied the duchess .
or had she been discovered and stopped in her flight ?
She allowed the vessel to pass Lorient and Brest without repeating her request to the captain , who , on his part , took care not to remind her of it .
Do you talk of your honor ?
It was now Cromwell ’ s turn to look fixedly at Mordaunt , and Mordaunt to make himself impenetrable .
His room , like all those on the same floor , had but one outlet to the gallery in the sight of everybody .
Emmanuel went towards the pistols .
I shall either return for them myself or shall send a courier directing you to bring them to me .
The magistrate was seated in an armchair , writing , with his back towards the door ; he did not move as he heard it open , and the door-keeper pronounce the words , “ Walk in , madame , ” and then reclose it ; but no sooner had the man ’ s footsteps ceased , than he started up , drew the bolts , closed the curtains , and examined every corner of the room .
Morrel bent his head till it touched the stone , then clutching the grating with both hands , he murmured : “ Oh , Valentine ! ” The count ’ s heart was pierced by the utterance of these two words ; he stepped forward , and touching the young man ’ s shoulder , said : “ I was looking for you , my friend. ” Monte Cristo expected a burst of passion , but he was deceived , for Morrel turning round , said calmly , — “ You see I was praying. ” The scrutinizing glance of the count searched the young man from head to foot .
Charles ’ s heart melted within him at the sight of those two children , whom he had not seen for two years and whom he now met at the moment of death .
Arrived at the end of the lane , D ’ Artagnan turned to the left .
“ Who goes there ? ” inquired the captain of the patrol .
“ Monsieur , ” said the count to Albert , “ I do not ask you to accompany me to my house , as I can only show you a habitation fitted up in a hurry , and I have , as you know , a reputation to keep up as regards not being taken by surprise .
“ By all means , ” replied the governor , and he signed to the turnkey to open the door .
On the staircase he met Athos and Porthos , who were coming to see him .
“ No , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I told you I did not wish to be behind my time ; I dressed myself in the carriage , and descended at the viscount ’ s door. ” The young men looked at each other ; they did not know if it was a comedy Monte Cristo was playing , but every word he uttered had such an air of simplicity , that it was impossible to suppose what he said was false—besides , why should he tell a falsehood ?
A cry more prolonged than the others and ending in a series of groans effectually roused me from my drowsy lethargy .
He formed , therefore , the resolution of believing for the present all that was said of their past , hoping for more certain and extended revelations in the future .
Adieu , Chevalier. ” “ Adieu , Countess. ” “ Commend me to the cardinal. ” “ Commend me to Satan. ” Milady and Rochefort exchanged a smile and separated .
“ Ah , noble fellow ! ” cried he .
“ How comes it that all do not retreat in aversion at sight of that flat , receding , serpent-like forehead , round , vulture-shaped head , and sharp-hooked nose , like the beak of a buzzard ?
Even before the coachman had hailed the _concierge_ , the massy gates rolled on their hinges—they had seen the Count coming , and at Paris , as everywhere else , he was served with the rapidity of lightning .
“ But , ” continued Monte Cristo , “ you are not in your usual spirits ? ” “ I have a dreadful headache , ” said Albert .
“ None at all .
“ You are all mistaken , gentlemen , ” answered Athos , gravely ; “ you are eating horse. ” “ Eating what ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Here we are at the camp ; therefore , gentlemen , not a word more of this affair .
Faria , since their first acquaintance , had been on all points so rational and logical , so wonderfully sagacious , in fact , that he could not understand how so much wisdom on all points could be allied with madness .
“ Oh , no , sir , it was expressly forbidden ; but they eluded the vigilance of the guards , and made a passage from one dungeon to the other. ” “ And which of them made this passage ? ” “ Oh , it must have been the young man , certainly , for he was strong and industrious , while the abbé was aged and weak ; besides , his mind was too vacillating to allow him to carry out an idea. ” “ Blind fools ! ” murmured the count .
Eight days after , I was back again , madame .
“ Do you refuse ? ” said Mercédès , in a tremulous voice .
“ No , no , dear D ’ Artagnan , ” said the figure , “ ’ tis not the devil , ’ tis Aramis ; gallop fast , Planchet , and when you come to the end of the village turn swiftly to the left. ” And Planchet , with Aramis behind him , set off at full gallop , followed by D ’ Artagnan , who began to think he was in the merry maze of some fantastic dream .
Come back as ambassador , come back as minister , come back surrounded with guards who will defend you , with servants who will watch over you , and then I shall no longer fear for your days , and I shall be happy in seeing you. ” “ Oh , is this true what you say ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Oh , then , some pledge of your indulgence , some object which came from you , and may remind me that I have not been dreaming ; something you have worn , and that I may wear in my turn—a ring , a necklace , a chain. ” “ Will you depart—will you depart , if I give you that you demand ? ” “ Yes. ” “ This very instant ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You will leave France , you will return to England ? ” “ I will , I swear to you. ” “ Wait , then , wait. ” Anne of Austria re-entered her apartment , and came out again almost immediately , holding a rosewood casket in her hand , with her cipher encrusted with gold .
As soon as they had disappeared behind a green curtain sufficiently thick to conceal them from the sight of any one who might be in pursuit they drew up to hold a council together .
But go a little way from France—go either to Aleppo or Cairo , or only to Naples or Rome , and you will see people passing by you in the streets—people erect , smiling , and fresh-colored , of whom Asmodeus , if you were holding on by the skirt of his mantle , would say , ‘ That man was poisoned three weeks ago ; he will be a dead man in a month. ’ ” “ Then , ” remarked Madame de Villefort , “ they have again discovered the secret of the famous _aqua Tofana_ that they said was lost at Perugia. ” “ Ah , but madame , does mankind ever lose anything ?
I approached the jeweller , who was not quite dead , and at the sound of my footsteps and the creaking of the floor , he opened his eyes , fixed them on me with an anxious and inquiring gaze , moved his lips as though trying to speak , then , overcome by the effort , fell back and expired .
Why should my father fly ? —he , the all-powerful—he , before whom others were accustomed to fly—he , who had taken for his device , ‘ They hate me ; then they fear me ! ’ “ It was , indeed , a flight which my father was trying to effect .
Porthos replied that in all probability his sprain would not permit him to depart yet awhile .
“ Never ! ” exclaimed Athos , raising his right hand to Heaven , “ never !
“ And towards whom do you bear this personal ill-feeling , then ? ” said Morcerf , turning pale with anger .
Then outrages were heaped upon me , and as my soul was not subdued they wished to defile my body forever .
We shall save you another time , as we have done this , only with a better chance of success , because we shall be able to command every requisite assistance. ” “ My good Edmond , ” answered the abbé , “ be not deceived .
Explain yourself , then. ” Noirtier fixed his intelligent eyes on Valentine ’ s hand .
But where is Franz ? ” “ In the first carriage , with M. de Villefort , who considers him already as one of the family. ” 40024m Such was the conversation in almost all the carriages ; these two sudden deaths , so quickly following each other , astonished everyone , but no one suspected the terrible secret which M. d ’ Avrigny had communicated , in his nocturnal walk to M. de Villefort .
Since the death of little Edward a great change had taken place in Monte Cristo .
The Journey Monte Cristo uttered a joyful exclamation on seeing the young men together .
See , see ! ” said the young girl .
In a moment they were at the Canebière .
Take some more of these cigars , M. de Morcerf. ” “ With all my heart , ” returned Albert ; “ Italian cigars are horrible .
Thousands of grasshoppers , hidden in the bushes , chirped with a monotonous and dull note ; the leaves of the myrtle and olive trees waved and rustled in the wind .
Louis XIII .
“ You seemed at dinner to be anxious about something. ” “ I was trying , ” said Porthos , “ to recall where I had seen that mendicant whom I must have killed. ” “ And you couldn ’ t remember ? ” “ No. ” “ Well , search , my friend , search ; and when you have found , you will tell me , will you not ? ” “ Pardieu ! ” said Porthos .
“ I said a million , ” replied Danglars , with the confidence of ignorance .
“ At any rate , ” murmured he , “ if it be , so much the better , for I have made a rare acquisition. ” 0279m Under pretence of being fatigued , Dantès asked to take the helm ; the steersman , glad to be relieved , looked at the captain , and the latter by a sign indicated that he might abandon it to his new comrade .
“ Here , I have brought mine with me , ” replied Albert .
“ I told you so , Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , shrugging his shoulders .
They advanced silently , the count guiding Franz as if he had the singular faculty of seeing in the dark .
“ Well , ” said Caderousse , “ why , what a lie he told !
You will not oppose M. Villefort , you will not displease the marchioness , and tomorrow you will sign the contract which will bind you to your husband. ” “ But , _mon Dieu ! _ tell me , how can I do otherwise ? ” “ Do not appeal to me , mademoiselle ; I shall be a bad judge in such a case ; my selfishness will blind me , ” replied Morrel , whose low voice and clenched hands announced his growing desperation .
I don ’ t very well know .
They both listened ; steps were distinctly heard in the corridor and on the stairs .
The cardinal pronounced the single word , “ Hanged ! ” The king was invited to come and see the hanging .
D ’ Artagnan would have preferred money in hand to all that fine talk , for he knew well that to Mazarin it was easy to promise and hard to perform .
“ Come , ” he said , “ if I pay you the 100,000 francs , will you be satisfied , and allow me to eat at my ease ? ” “ Certainly , ” said Peppino .
I had been told that you had endeavored to escape ; that you had taken the place of another prisoner ; that you had slipped into the winding sheet of a dead body ; that you had been thrown alive from the top of the Château d ’ If , and that the cry you uttered as you dashed upon the rocks first revealed to your jailers that they were your murderers .
The banker soon returned .
The dead , once buried in their graves , rise no more. ” “ And I tell you , sir , that you are mistaken .
On the fifth day he dragged himself to the door of the cell .
Danglars alone was content and joyous—he had got rid of an enemy and made his own situation on the _Pharaon_ secure .
[ 14 ] Greek militiamen in the war for independence.—Ed .
I can well believe that so learned a person as yourself would prefer absolute solitude to being tormented with the company of one as ignorant and uninformed as myself .
“ After this he took from his cupboard the bank-notes and gold he had put there , thrust the one into the pocket of his trousers , and the other into that of his waistcoat , hastily tied up a small bundle of linen , and rushing towards the door , disappeared in the darkness of the night .
These bravoes who resuscitate in our epoch the traditions of another reign are troublesome ; since there are two of them already there , let us add a third. ” Athos was not altogether the queen ’ s dupe , but he was not a man to run away on suspicion—above all , when distinctly told that he should see his friends again .
Overhead I could accurately distinguish every movement of the jeweller , who , after making the best arrangements in his power for passing a comfortable night , threw himself on his bed , and I could hear it creak and groan beneath his weight .
“ The man who abducted my wife. ” The cardinal rang a second time .
Well , I take you with me ; we conceal ourselves , and wait together. ” “ But I shall not be allowed to go ; I am almost a prisoner. ” “ As they believe that I go in consequence of an order from the cardinal , no one will believe you anxious to follow me. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well !
Does your Majesty require anything further ?
I want all my household at Auteuil. ” “ But will no one remain in the house , my lord ? ” asked Baptistin .
But that is all .
“ Well ? ” said he , on perceiving Aramis .
Albert , completely exhausted with the exercise which invigorated Monte Cristo , was sleeping in an armchair near the window , while the count was designing with his architect the plan of a conservatory in his house , when the sound of a horse at full speed on the high road made Albert look up .
There came to the court an ambassador so brave , so magnificent , so elegant , that every woman lost her heart to him ; and the queen had even the indiscretion to give him certain ornaments so rare that they could never be replaced by any like them .
There is no word , though it should come from the profoundest depth of my heart , that can express my gratitude .
“ Don ’ t let him escape ! ” said a loud voice .
Chapter LXXIV .
That ’ s it !
And he answered ‘ that Monsieur Bazin went to Noisy. ’ ’ Tis his custom .
Sick of the smallpox at his age !
Danglars , raving , threw himself on the goat-skin .
“ It was the fever that disturbed you , madame , ” said Villefort .
It might have been thought that he hoped the beverage would be mortal , and that he sought for death to deliver him from a duty which he would rather die than fulfil .
He was called count , he was said to possess 50,000 livres per annum ; and his father ’ s immense riches , buried in the quarries of Saravezza , were a constant theme .
“ I !
“ The countess , ” said Morcerf , “ was at her toilet when she was informed of the visit she was about to receive .
“ Well ? ” continued she .
The officer looked at me with astonishment , and then said , ‘ What is your business with me , monsieur ?
The procureur exerted himself to reply .
There is nothing to do but to send Monsieur Mazarin to the most distant frontier and to take care that he does not return even by that , nor any other entrance into France. ” “ One instant , sir , ” said the man in a gown , whom he addressed ; “ a plague on ’ t !
D ’ Artagnan and Porthos , armed with their swords , and Athos and Aramis , each carrying a concealed poniard , approached the house which for the time being was Charles Stuart ’ s prison .
“ And therefore , ” said D ’ Artagnan , to clip the hope which Athos ’ s tacit adhesion had imparted to Mazarin , “ we shall not proceed to that violence save in the last extremity. ” “ If on the contrary , ” resumed Mazarin , “ you accept your liberty—— ” “ Why you , my lord , might take it away from us in less than five minutes afterward ; and from my knowledge of you I believe you will so take it away from us. ” “ No—on the faith of a cardinal .
“ Well , now I have an enemy much more to be dreaded by me than this little Madame Bonacieux. ” “ Who is that ? ” “ Her lover. ” “ What is his name ? ” “ Oh , your Eminence knows him well , ” cried Milady , carried away by her anger .
“ Accused , ” said the president , “ your name and surname ? ” Andrea arose .
“ And when you are looking forward to be captain , it was wrong to annoy the owner. ” “ But I explained to him the cause of my refusal , ” replied Dantès , “ and I hope he fully understood it. ” “ Yes , but to be captain one must do a little flattery to one ’ s patrons. ” “ I hope to be captain without that , ” said Dantès .
You can understand our disappointment when , arriving at a pretty little house on the skirts of a wood , which at a distance had quite a gay appearance , with its red roof and green shutters , we found nothing but a poor wretch bathed—Ah !
“ How strange , ” continued the king , with some asperity ; “ the police think that they have disposed of the whole matter when they say , ‘ A murder has been committed , ’ and especially so when they can add , ‘ And we are on the track of the guilty persons. ’ ” “ Sire , your majesty will , I trust , be amply satisfied on this point at least. ” “ We shall see .
“ That , madame , is an official secret ; but if you have any commissions for Paris , a friend of mine is going there tonight , and will with pleasure undertake them. ” The guests looked at each other .
when I am at the mercy of every scribbler in the Palais Royal who covers waste paper with nonsense , or of every country squire in the kingdom. ” “ Nevertheless , you have still the power of banishing from your presence those whom you do not like ! ” “ That is to say , whom you do not like , ” returned the queen .
This man , whom they had noticed from the first for the same reason they had themselves been remarked by others , was walking in a listless way up and down the jetty .
where is thy master ? ” “ You stand upon his property ! ” “ But how handsome thou art—how fat !
God who knows all , knows without doubt ; but as for me , I accuse nobody. ” “ Oh , what an abyss ; what an abyss ! ” cried Felton .
Chapter XXVII .
You recollect perfectly all I have told you , do you not ? ” “ Your Eminence will judge : the ball of Madame the Constable ; the night at the Louvre ; the evening at Amiens ; the arrest of Montague ; the letter of Madame de Chevreuse. ” “ That ’ s it , ” said the cardinal , “ that ’ s it .
“ I am a friend. ” “ Captain Groslow ! ” cried Mordaunt .
“ What do you say ? ” “ I say that love is a lottery in which he who wins , wins death !
What ’ s your business here , you hussy ? ” D ’ Artagnan threw off his hood , and disengaged his hands from the folds of the cloak .
It may be worn at Via Reggio ; but that costume , however elegant in itself , has long been out of fashion in Paris. ” “ That ’ s unfortunate. ” “ Oh , if you really are attached to your old mode of dress ; you can easily resume it when you leave Paris. ” “ But what shall I wear ? ” “ What you find in your trunks. ” “ In my trunks ?
exactly opposite the other !
A daughter of Henry IV. , of that great , that sublime sovereign—— ” “ All which does not prevent you refusing hospitality to his son-in-law , sir !
My faith !
She would invoke the past , recall old recollections ; she would supplicate him by the remembrance of guilty , yet happy days .
La Ramee stretched out his legs , Grimaud took a table-cloth , tore it into strips and tied La Ramee ’ s feet together .
I know them , ” cried Milady , who began to feel a chill penetrate her heart .
Caderousse drew a deep breath .
They were indeed admirably received by Mazarin , who paid them numerous compliments , and announced that they were more than half on their way to obtain what they desired , namely , D ’ Artagnan his captaincy , Porthos his barony .
A considerable number of clowns were assembled and rendered homage to their lord .
Remember his name well and look at him well , that his face may not be forgotten , for this evening he is going to render us a great service. ” The young king looked at the officer with his large-formed eye , and repeated : “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” “ That is it , my son. ” The young king slowly raised his little hand and held it out to the musketeer ; the latter bent on his knee and kissed it .
Laporte could not leave the Louvre ; she had not a soul in the world in whom she could confide .
Suddenly the bell that gives the signal for the end of the Carnival sounded , and at the same instant all the _moccoletti_ were extinguished as if by enchantment .
From whom can come so many disgraces heaped upon her head , if not from him ?
be it so ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ that is exactly what I want. ” D ’ Artagnan , in two steps , was engaged with the foe , whom , according to custom , he attacked impetuously , but he met this time with a skill and a strength of arm that gave him pause .
The Marriage Feast The morning ’ s sun rose clear and resplendent , touching the foamy waves into a network of ruby-tinted light .
At last they stood face to face in the very room where ten minutes before Mordaunt had been talking to Cromwell .
“ And what is a Fronde ? ” inquired Mazarin .
I remember too well .
Porthos had received a thrust through his arm , and Bicarat one through his thigh .
Do you intend to struggle against our ill-fortune ?
I answer for all that , ’ the prince said .
Now , M. de Villefort must either give his consent to this plan or his refusal ; in the first case , I shall leave directly , and in the second , I shall wait till I am of age , which will be in about ten months .
Quick as a flash , he raised her in his arms and placed her in a chair .
The horses were sent back wearing the same harness she had seen on them in the morning ; only , by the count ’ s orders , in the centre of each rosette that adorned either side of their heads , had been fastened a large diamond .
You have no right to put me to death alone .
I ate some bread and some fruit ; then , remembering the narcotic mixed with the water I had drunk , I would not touch that which was placed on the table , but filled my glass at a marble fountain fixed in the wall over my dressing table .
Peppino pretended not to hear him , and without even turning his head continued to eat slowly .
But you guess it now , do you not ? —or , rather , you remember it ?
As for her husband , he was a strapping fellow of forty , or five-and-forty , who had more than once , in time of danger , given ample proof of his presence of mind and courage. ” “ And you say , ” interrupted Monte Cristo “ that this took place towards the year—— ” “ 1829 , your excellency. ” “ In what month ? ” “ June. ” “ The beginning or the end ? ” “ The evening of the 3rd. ” 20303m “ Ah , ” said Monte Cristo “ the evening of the 3rd of June , 1829 .
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works , so the Foundation ( and you ! )
The apartment destined for the purpose was spacious and lighted by a number of windows , over each of which was written in golden letters for some inexplicable reason the name of one of the principal cities of France ; beneath these windows a wooden balcony extended the entire length of the house .
“ No ; it is in my arms and shoulders , ” answered Porthos with gratified naivete .
Thank God , thank God ! ” “ Yes , it is I , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it is I , whom God has sent to watch over you. ” “ Was it with that intention you followed me ? ” asked the young woman , with a coquettish smile , whose somewhat bantering character resumed its influence , and with whom all fear had disappeared from the moment in which she recognized a friend in one she had taken for an enemy .
D ’ Artagnan !
“ And you are right , ” said his host ; “ it shows you have a tendency for an Oriental life .
A few moments after , the little door was opened and a man entered .
In England , lately , we failed , we were beaten , and that is a blemish on our reputation. ” “ By whom , then , were we beaten ? ” asked Porthos .
Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state ’ s laws .
I wished to bury it during my whole life in my own bosom , but your brother Maximilian wrested it from me by a violence he repents of now , I am sure. ” Then turning around , and seeing that Morrel , still on his knees , had thrown himself into an armchair , he added in a low voice , pressing Emmanuel ’ s hand significantly , “ Watch over him. ” “ Why so ? ” asked the young man , surprised .
“ And thou hast not hurled thy thunder at him , my God !
The maid approached Planchet , whom she took for Lubin , and holding out a little billet to him said , “ For your master. ” “ For my master ? ” replied Planchet , astonished .
“ As to that , ” said Athos , “ I beg you to believe that I care very little about it .
MONSIEUR BONACIEUX Chapter XIV .
Andrea made no resistance , although he protested against it .
“ The crime which I have committed , my lord , has no call upon human justice , and you can only deliver me from it by blessing me frequently , as you have just done. ” “ Come , be candid , ” said the coadjutor , “ you have not all your life followed the trade which you do now ? ” “ No , my lord .
It was not known whether , after the taking of the bastion , the Rochellais had evacuated it or left a garrison in it ; the object then was to examine the place near enough to verify the reports .
Truth compelled Franz , in spite of the dislike he seemed to have taken to the count , to confess that the advantage was not on Pastrini ’ s side .
“ Well , Bazin , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ since you do not know where your master lives , let us speak of it no more ; let us part good friends .
On reaching her room Eugénie locked her door , while Louise fell on a chair .
“ Alas , alas , sir , have pity on me ! ” The old man ’ s eyes remained fixed on the door .
This demanded new effort , but nothing compared to the first ; at the end of a week he wrote as well with this pen as with the stylus .
We must ask the Comte de la Fere the question .
See , I have thought about you—look at the good breakfast we are going to have ; nothing but what you are fond of. ” Andrea , indeed , inhaled the scent of something cooking which was not unwelcome to him , hungry as he was ; it was that mixture of fat and garlic peculiar to Provençal kitchens of an inferior order , added to that of dried fish , and above all , the pungent smell of musk and cloves .
Let us load the guns. ” The four Musketeers went to work ; and as they were loading the last musket Grimaud announced that the breakfast was ready .
“ Sir , ” he said , “ I can tell you what is at present unknown to her majesty .
You are pale. ” “ It is this , ” answered Athos , with a trembling voice .
Vampa gazed on him for a moment without betraying the slightest emotion ; while , on the contrary , Teresa , shuddering in every limb , dared not approach the slain ruffian but by degrees , and threw a hesitating glance at the dead body over the shoulder of her lover .
“ Well , ” he asked , “ that will do , will it not ? ” “ Yes , my lord , on one condition. ” “ What ? ” “ That Grimaud shall wait on us at table. ” Nothing could be more agreeable to the duke , however , he had presence of mind enough to exclaim : “ To the devil with your Grimaud !
This , reckoning his loss , and what he had missed gaining , made the difference of a million to Danglars .
“ No , no , ” she answered , “ I would rather remain here. ” “ Are you really frightened , madame ? ” said Monte Cristo .
My friend is still so kind as to address me by that old and well beloved appellation , which makes my heart glad when I hear it. ” “ ’ Tis an illustrious name , ” said the lieutenant , “ and had one day triumphal honors paid to it. ” “ What do you mean , sir ? ” inquired Raoul .
If he did not come , the painful sensation became most intense ; if , on the contrary , he appeared , his noble countenance , his brilliant eyes , his amiability , his polite attention even towards Madame Danglars , soon dispelled every impression of fear .
“ You will bring lights , and relieve the sentinel , ” continued Felton .
As for Porthos , he assaulted the foe with such violence that , although his sword was thrust aside , the enemy was thrown off his horse and fell about ten steps from it .
“ Come in , come in , ” said Albert , rising and advancing to meet the young man .
“ Well , ” answered the old man , by closing his eyes ; but his appearance manifested increasing uneasiness .
“ You are late. ” “ General , I wished to see the ceremony to the end , which delayed me. ” “ Ah !
I have never understood how I could have laid low a head so beautiful , with a face so pale. ” The monk seemed agitated by a strange emotion ; he trembled all over ; he seemed eager to put a question which yet he dared not ask .
However much of a Jew he may be , he will give you at least eight hundred pistoles .
Planchet glared fiercely over the back of his armchair .
“ Why , ” said Aramis , “ one-half were hanged and the other half were shot. ” “ Well , I , ” said D ’ Artagnan “ I answer that while there remains a drop of blood in my veins you will be neither hanged nor shot .
“ That ’ s well ! ” said Athos , filling his glass and that of his friend ; “ here ’ s to Porthos and Aramis !
At last he sank .
The general , who had almost fainted , revived .
“ Why is she not come ? ” asked the prince in a low voice , addressing his brother .
1.E.4 .
He intended taking advantage of the opportunity to make fresh inquiries of the new conductor ; but the horses were unharnessed , and others put in their places , without anyone claiming money from the traveller .
Oh , you are young while I am beginning to get old .
“ What is her brother-in-law ’ s name ? ” “ Lord de Winter. ” “ Where is he now ? ” “ He returned to London at the first sound of war. ” “ Well , there ’ s just the man we want , ” said Athos .
“ Oh , sir , ” said Villefort , arresting Maximilian by the arm , “ if my father , the inflexible man , makes this request , it is because he knows , be assured , that Valentine will be terribly revenged .
This winding-sheet was nothing more than a beautiful piece of cambric , which the young girl had bought a fortnight before .
The hand which has retreated for a while will be again stretched forth to save me at the very moment when I shall think myself sinking into the abyss .
D ’ Artagnan wiped his damp forehead and the king slid off his bed , saying , “ Let us go. ” At this moment Laporte reappeared .
You will no longer have half a dead body tied to you as a drag to all your movements .
Poor child !
Bonacieux had made with him for that very evening ; but we are bound to say , to the credit of our hero , that the bad opinion entertained by M. de Tréville of women in general , did not inspire him with the least suspicion of his pretty hostess .
Chapter LXII .
if I ’ m not mistaken here ’ s Bazin .
I have just killed an old friend. ” “ Indeed ! ” replied Porthos , “ who ? ” “ That poor Count de Rochefort. ” “ Well !
Bring my new saddle and carry it along with those of these gentlemen. ” “ And what have you done with your ecclesiastics ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
And he caused himself to be announced to the minister .
You know how difficult it is to discover the truth ; and unless a man be endowed with that admirable instinct which causes Louis XIII .
Now Monsieur de Chavigny piqued himself on his infallible penetration ; for that which almost proved that he was the son of Richelieu was his everlasting pretension ; he examined attentively the countenance of the applicant for place and fancied that the contracted eyebrows , thin lips , hooked nose , and prominent cheek-bones of Grimaud were favorable signs .
To SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate .
Oh , look at me closely , and discover , if you can , even the semblance of a reproach in me. ” The count looked up and fixed his eyes on Mercédès , who arose partly from her seat and extended both her hands towards him .
Had he but waited till today , the price would have fallen to 205 , and instead of gaining 300,000 francs , he would have lost 20 or 25,000. ” “ And what has caused the sudden fall from 409 to 206 ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
He paraded his Musketeers before the Cardinal Armand Duplessis with an insolent air which made the gray moustache of his Eminence curl with ire .
She has experienced much anxiety ; but she is now at length a little reassured , having sent her secretary away in order that nothing may happen unexpectedly .
His warm and fickle imagination , which in Gascony had rendered him formidable to young chambermaids , and even sometimes their mistresses , had never dreamed , even in moments of delirium , of half the amorous wonders or a quarter of the feats of gallantry which were here set forth in connection with names the best known and with details the least concealed .
The queen and her minister , more especially the latter , had reason to feel anxious .
This new cargo was destined for the coast of the Duchy of Lucca , and consisted almost entirely of Havana cigars , sherry , and Malaga wines .
He sat down occasionally on his bed , pressing his hand on his heart .
Had I been alone I should scarcely have gone to Rueil without great caution .
As for M. de Villefort , he fulfilled the predictions of Héloïse to the letter , —donned his dress suit , drew on a pair of white gloves , ordered the servants to attend the carriage dressed in their full livery , and drove that same night to No .
The eight guards were at their posts .
“ What , monseigneur ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , with a calmness which astonished the cardinal himself .
“ Do you wish to go on the water , sir ? ” said the sailor .
“ What the devil could that handkerchief signify ? ” Placed where he was , D ’ Artagnan could not perceive the face of Aramis .
And yet , notwithstanding this want of respect , he felt an uncontrollable passion for this woman boiling in his veins—passion drunk with contempt ; but passion or thirst , as the reader pleases .
She had only one day left .
“ If the studs are not yet gone to Paris , they will not arrive till after you. ” “ How so ? ” “ I have just placed an embargo on all vessels at present in his Majesty ’ s ports , and without particular permission , not one dare lift an anchor. ” D ’ Artagnan looked with stupefaction at a man who thus employed the unlimited power with which he was clothed by the confidence of a king in the prosecution of his intrigues .
“ If , ” she said , “ there is one among you who knows the king , let him approach and say whether it is really his majesty lying there. ” A man wrapped in a cloak , in the folds of which his face was hidden , approached and leaned over the bed and looked .
murder !
It is my soul that must be saved ; as for my body , it is lost. ” “ To die whilst doing a good deed !
They search her ; she resists ; they use force—the scoundrels ! ” In spite of his prudence , D ’ Artagnan restrained himself with great difficulty from taking a part in the scene that was going on below .
I am a stranger , and a stranger to such a degree , that this is the first time I have ever been at Paris .
I am so unhappy. ” “ I have known a man much more unfortunate than you , Morrel. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ Alas , ” said Monte Cristo , “ it is the infirmity of our nature always to believe ourselves much more unhappy than those who groan by our sides ! ” “ What can be more wretched than the man who has lost all he loved and desired in the world ? ” “ Listen , Morrel , and pay attention to what I am about to tell you .
You see that everything is to our advantage. ” “ Yes , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but we shall indubitably attract a ball. ” “ Well , my dear , ” replied Athos , “ you know well that the balls most to be dreaded are not from the enemy. ” “ But for such an expedition we surely ought to have brought our muskets. ” “ You are stupid , friend Porthos .
“ Well , how is it with this madman ? ” exclaimed he , turning round as the noise of the door announced the entrance of the host , who came in to inquire if he was unhurt .
But Lord de Winter might suspect him ; Felton himself might now be watched !
Then she rang for her lady ’ s maid , and , weak as she was , she dressed , in order to be ready for whatever might happen .
Ah , thanks , Felton , thanks ! ” The young man pressed her to his heart .
“ I am , as I trust you do not doubt , your devoted “ Du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds. ” “ Well , ” said Aramis , “ what do you say to that ? ” “ I say , my dear D ’ Herblay , that it is almost sacrilege to distrust Providence when one has such friends , and therefore we will divide the pistoles from Porthos , as we divided the louis sent by D ’ Artagnan. ” The division being made by the light of Bazin ’ s taper , the two friends continued their road and a quarter of an hour later they had joined De Winter at the Porte Saint Denis .
It was situated in the Via dei Banchi , near St. Peter ’ s .
Morrel hesitated to advance ; he dreaded the enervating effect of all that he saw .
Do not open the pie till you are alone .
The library was divided into two parts on either side of the wall , and contained upwards of two thousand volumes ; one division was entirely devoted to novels , and even the volume which had been published but the day before was to be seen in its place in all the dignity of its red and gold binding .
“ If I had been wearing a handkerchief like yours on my head , rags on my back , and worn-out shoes on my feet , you would not have known me. ” “ You wrong me , my boy ; now I have found you , nothing prevents my being as well-dressed as anyone , knowing , as I do , the goodness of your heart .
“ Pardon , your majesty , ” he cried , “ but the people have dashed the sentinels against the gates and they are now forcing the doors ; what are your commands ? ” “ Listen , madame , ” said Gondy .
“ Bills upon his Majesty ’ s private treasury , ” answered D ’ Artagnan , who , reckoning upon entering into the king ’ s service in consequence of this recommendation , believed he could make this somewhat hazardous reply without telling of a falsehood .
The nobleman to whom he applied , being a friend of Porthos , was very ready , not to sell them , as was proposed , but to lend them .
The Fifth of September The extension provided for by the agent of Thomson & French , at the moment when Morrel expected it least , was to the poor shipowner so decided a stroke of good fortune that he almost dared to believe that fate was at length grown weary of wasting her spite upon him .
Know , then , what I thought I had already told you , that in participation in this world ’ s affairs , more especially in their moral aspects , the Count of Monte Cristo has never ceased to entertain the scruples and even the superstitions of the East .
“ If I bore my proper title I should be a lord .
Where am I , and why am I here ?
You are not joking , are you ? ” “ No , on the honor of an officer ; there is the half-pistole ; ” and he showed him the seductive coin , but did not give it him .
The fifth sharer in Edmond ’ s bequest , was his own father. ” “ Too true , too true ! ” ejaculated Caderousse , almost suffocated by the contending passions which assailed him , “ the poor old man did die. ” “ I learned so much at Marseilles , ” replied the abbé , making a strong effort to appear indifferent ; “ but from the length of time that has elapsed since the death of the elder Dantès , I was unable to obtain any particulars of his end .
M. de Tréville entered the king ’ s cabinet boldly , and found his Majesty in a very ill humor , seated on an armchair , beating his boot with the handle of his whip .
That is never done .
‘ The first will be _mazzolato_ , the second _decapitato_. ’ Yes , ” continued the count , “ it was at first arranged in this way ; but I think since yesterday some change has taken place in the order of the ceremony. ” “ Really ? ” said Franz .
This was because his love , so strange , so new , and so ardent , made him view the infamous and imaginary accusations of Milady de Winter as , through a magnifying glass , one views as frightful monsters atoms in reality imperceptible by the side of an ant .
This voice made everyone bow before it , resembling in its effect the wind passing over a field of wheat , by its superior strength forcing every ear to yield obeisance .
“ And what favor , pray ? ” asked Lord de Winter .
“ Nothing , ” replied Maximilian .
20356m Adieu !
Danglars did not even look at her , though she did her best to faint .
Chapter XXVIII .
“ He gave no other name , ” answered Julie , looking earnestly at the count , “ than that at the end of his letter— ‘ Sinbad the Sailor. ’ ” “ Which is evidently not his real name , but a fictitious one. ” Then , noticing that Julie was struck with the sound of his voice : “ Tell me , ” continued he , “ was he not about my height , perhaps a little taller , with his chin imprisoned , as it were , in a high cravat ; his coat closely buttoned up , and constantly taking out his pencil ? ” “ Oh , do you then know him ? ” cried Julie , whose eyes sparkled with joy .
“ Here , ” said he , leaning heavily on the arm of Monte Cristo , — “ here is the spot where my father stopped , when the _Pharaon_ entered the port ; it was here that the good old man , whom you saved from death and dishonor , threw himself into my arms .
But with his simple Musketeer ’ s uniform and nothing but the manner in which he threw back his head and advanced his foot , Athos instantly took the place which was his due and consigned the ostentatious Porthos to the second rank .
The salon downstairs was only an Algerian divan , for the use of smokers .
“ I came to pray over the body of your daughter. ” “ And now why are you here ? ” “ I come to tell you that you have sufficiently repaid your debt , and that from this moment I will pray to God to forgive you , as I do. ” “ Good heavens ! ” exclaimed Villefort , stepping back fearfully , “ surely that is not the voice of the Abbé Busoni ! ” “ No ! ” The abbé threw off his wig , shook his head , and his hair , no longer confined , fell in black masses around his manly face .
What do such as we desire but a good wife and careful housekeeper , and where can I look for these better than in you ? ” “ Fernand , ” answered Mercédès , shaking her head , “ a woman becomes a bad manager , and who shall say she will remain an honest woman , when she loves another man better than her husband ?
what ’ s that ? ” cried the duke .
They sing—let them pay the piper .
Chatillon saw the motion and put his hand to his sword .
“ It is not necessary for Milady * to be seen by this fellow , ” continued the stranger .
You are almost a boy. ” “ I see that you require someone to answer for me ? ” “ I admit that would reassure me greatly. ” “ Do you know Athos ? ” “ No. ” “ Porthos ? ” “ No. ” “ Aramis ? ” “ No .
As Grimaud entered he saw this comb on the tea-table ; he took it up , and as he took it he made a low bow .
“ Shall we return to the camp ? ” said Porthos .
“ You will retract this assertion , will you not , Beauchamp ? ” said Albert with increased though stifled anger .
The young officer , however , remained mute and motionless ; his look alone had spoken .
For an instant he feared lest , instead of keeping in shore , she should stand out to sea ; but he soon saw that she would pass , like most vessels bound for Italy , between the islands of Jaros and Calaseraigne .
If I am not mistaken those are citizens , helmeted and mailed , armed with good muskets , as in the time of the League , and whose eyes are so intently fixed on this window that they will see you if you raise that curtain much ; and now come to the other side—what do you see ?
Dame Nanette , look for those apricots which Madame de Longueville sent to us yesterday from Noisy and give half a dozen of them to your son , with a crust of new bread. ” “ Oh , thank you , sir , thank you , Monsieur Broussel , ” said Friquet ; “ I am so fond of apricots ! ” Broussel then proceeded to his wife ’ s room and asked for breakfast ; it was nine o ’ clock .
“ Why , on board the tartan , ” replied the sailor .
Matrimonial Projects The day following this scene , at the hour Debray usually chose to pay a visit to Madame Danglars on his way to his office , his _coupé_ did not appear .
Well , his love is half real , half fanciful .
Yet , on his arrival , Morrel did not utter a complaint , or say one harsh word .
His only jewellery was a chain , so fine that the slender gold thread was scarcely perceptible on his white waistcoat .
The Countess G—— wished to revive the subject of the count , but Franz announced he had something far newer to tell her , and , in spite of Albert ’ s demonstrations of false modesty , he informed the countess of the great event which had preoccupied them for the last three days .
“ I have not said good-morning to you , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” he said ; “ nevertheless , I have remarked you .
The 5,000,000 you stole from the hospitals has been restored to them by an unknown hand .
“ You offer me your services ; with the same frankness I accept them .
That day the minister ’ s clerks and the subordinates had a great deal to put up with from his ill-humor .
He described the death of the other soldier , and the perils they had encountered .
“ Come , gentlemen , have you decided ? ” cried Jussac for the third time .
He was struck by a sudden idea .
“ Valentine , ” said he , “ dear Valentine , you must not speak thus—rather let me die .
“ There is myself , ” replied Milady .
If an angel appeared to that young man as an accuser of Milady , he would take him , in the mental disposition in which he now found himself , for a messenger sent by the devil .
“ Ho !
1.F.2 .
Go on. ” “ As I entered Nîmes , I literally waded in blood ; at every step you encountered dead bodies and bands of murderers , who killed , plundered , and burned .
Like the rats that one by one forsake the doomed ship even before the vessel weighs anchor , so all the numerous clerks had by degrees deserted the office and the warehouse .
“ Hang it , ” said Groslow , “ I thought I had succeeded better .
Did you take anybody with you when you put into the port of Elba ? ” “ Nobody. ” “ Somebody there received your packet , and gave you a letter in place of it , I think ? ” “ Yes ; the grand marshal did. ” “ And what did you do with that letter ? ” “ Put it into my portfolio. ” “ You had your portfolio with you , then ?
“ I do not know a woman that is worth the trouble of being sought for when she is once lost .
If I had listened to you , the knife would have been pointed and of steel .
“ And as much , at least , in pearls , diamonds , and jewels , ” said Eugénie .
Besides , the count will be in his own house , and only see them when he thinks fit to do so. ” “ Thanks , monsieur , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I shall content myself with being presented to your sister and her husband , if you will do me the honor to introduce me ; but I can not accept the offer of anyone of these gentlemen , since my habitation is already prepared. ” “ What , ” cried Morcerf ; “ you are , then , going to a hotel—that will be very dull for you. ” “ Was I so badly lodged at Rome ? ” said Monte Cristo smiling .
“ Try again , ” whispered the count , who depended on the secret spring , which was unknown to the picklock , clever as he might be— “ try again , you have a few minutes ’ work there. ” And he advanced to the window .
“ Come in here , ” said d ’ Avrigny , and he took him into the chamber where the sick man lay .
“ What do you want ? ” “ Something to drink. ” “ Your excellency knows that wine is beyond all price near Rome. ” “ Then give me water , ” cried Danglars , endeavoring to parry the blow .
“ I wish , ” continued Mazarin , finishing , as it were , the speech this sudden movement of the queen had cut ; “ I wish , in fact , that you should now do for your husband what you formerly did for your lover. ” “ Again that accusation ! ” cried the queen .
My mind was already made up .
The dying man ’ s eyes were all the time riveted on the door , through which he hoped succor would arrive .
M. d ’ Avrigny warned me of it .
“ Let us go to Rueil , ” said Athos .
14 .
Planchet waited , towel on arm ; Fourreau uncorked the bottles ; and Brisemont , which was the name of the convalescent , poured the wine , which was a little shaken by its journey , carefully into decanters .
He had instructed Porthos to profit by this opportunity to see the ceremony ; and Porthos , in full dress , mounted his finest horse , taking the part of supernumerary musketeer , as D ’ Artagnan had so often done formerly .
Felton arose .
“ You may go. ” The footman went out .
He had reserved the house and half the garden , and building a wall between the garden and the workshops , had let them upon lease with the pavilions at the bottom of the garden .
“ No doubt some invisible witness had seen me draw the water from that fountain , and had taken advantage of my confidence in it , the better to assure my ruin , so coolly resolved upon , so cruelly pursued .
Robert le Diable Chapter 54 .
You are setting up an establishment , of course ? ” “ Why , yes , ” replied the count .
Having passed through the Rue du Mont-Blanc , guided by the instinct which leads thieves always to take the safest path , he found himself at the end of the Rue La Fayette .
A torrent , whose bed was dry , led into a deep gorge .
Aramis , notwithstanding his self-control , could not refrain from a slight movement of surprise .
But touching these Spanish affairs , I think that the baroness did not dream the whole of the Don Carlos matter .
Saint Denis .
Felton , give me that knife ! ” And at these words , as if all her strength was exhausted , Milady sank , weak and languishing , into the arms of the young officer , who , intoxicated with love , anger , and voluptuous sensations hitherto unknown , received her with transport , pressed her against his heart , all trembling at the breath from that charming mouth , bewildered by the contact with that palpitating bosom .
“ That concerns your Majesty more than me , ” said the cardinal .
“ Enough ? ” asked M. de Tréville .
Let us sit down and chat quietly , as brother and sister ought to do. ” Then , turning toward the door , and seeing that the young officer was waiting for his last orders , he said .
Now , do you know , baron , I have a great mind to pick a quarrel with you for asking it ; as if all the world did not know who the Countess G—— was. ” “ Ah , to be sure , ” replied Château-Renaud ; “ the lovely Venetian , is it not ? ” “ Herself. ” At this moment the countess perceived Albert , and returned his salutation with a smile .
But before setting out he reflected that for a lad of intelligence and experience he was in a singular predicament , since he was proceeding toward uncertainty and leaving certainty behind him .
I wish to consult you about some thing. ” “ Do so. ” “ Do you think it is time for us to enter the service ? ” “ But are you not still in the service—you , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ I mean active service .
I am expiating a moment of selfishness , and so I always say to La Carconte , when she complains , ‘ Hold your tongue , woman ; it is the will of God. ’ ” And Caderousse bowed his head with every sign of real repentance .
And you ? ” “ As for me , I am quite sure that after turning out all my pockets and emptying my drawers I shall not find ten louis at home .
It was the plan of Alexander VI .
You must be aware that for our undertaking , company would be in the way. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said the Guardsman , astonished that his name had not produced more effect upon the young man .
“ I do not know , ” replied Dantès .
Villefort had secluded himself , not to study , but to reflect ; and with the door locked and orders given that he should not be disturbed excepting for important business , he sat down in his armchair and began to ponder over the events , the remembrance of which had during the last eight days filled his mind with so many gloomy thoughts and bitter recollections .
Athos , without saying anything , emptied his pockets , got together all his jewels , purses , aiguillettes , and gold chains , and offered them all to Porthos ; but as to the sword , he said it was sealed to its place and should never quit it until its master should himself quit his lodgings .
This calmness was more alarming to the two women than the deepest dejection would have been .
I desire to know what is the meaning of this ? ” “ Be kind enough , madame , to listen to me , ” said Danglars .
As next to the queen , she was the most considerable personage of the fête , she was received by the city officials , and placed in a box opposite to that which the queen was to occupy .
M. Noirtier de Villefort We will now relate what was passing in the house of the king ’ s attorney after the departure of Madame Danglars and her daughter , and during the time of the conversation between Maximilian and Valentine , which we have just detailed .
that contemptible Mazarin has stopped poor Scarron ’ s pension. ” “ That is unreasonable , ” said Athos , saluting in his turn the two cavaliers .
His thin but wiry legs were arrayed in a pair of richly embroidered clocked stockings , evidently of English manufacture , while from his three-cornered hat depended a long streaming knot of white and blue ribbons .
nonsense ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ I can manage so that her majesty will receive me well ; I know an excellent method. ” “ What ? ” “ I shall take her majesty the letter in which you tell her that the finances are exhausted. ” “ And then ? ” asked Mazarin , turning pale .
On one of those immense staircases , upon whose space modern civilization would build a whole house , ascended and descended the office seekers of Paris , who ran after any sort of favor—gentlemen from the provinces anxious to be enrolled , and servants in all sorts of liveries , bringing and carrying messages between their masters and M. de Tréville .
and their captain—see !
They can ’ t be nice , though they do say ‘ as fat as a dormouse. ’ It is not a wonder they are fat , sleeping all day , and only waking to eat all night .
During the evening , Monte Cristo quitted Paris for Auteuil , accompanied by Ali .
Besides , I believe , between ourselves , she did this in order to distract her mind , that she might forget ; and she only filled her head in order to alleviate the weight on her heart .
I did all in my power to discover the murderers , but no one durst tell me their names , so much were they dreaded .
‘ What do you want ? ’ said my father to some people who were holding a paper inscribed with characters of gold .
The officer obeyed .
I staked on him. ” “ But there were three races , were there not ? ” “ Yes ; there was the prize given by the Jockey Club—a gold cup , you know—and a very singular circumstance occurred about that race. ” “ What was it ? ” “ Oh , shut up ! ” again interposed some of the audience .
Mazarin disappeared as they rose from table .
As he thus reflected , he felt the sensation we have described , and which had hitherto been unknown to him , arise in his bosom , and fill him with vague apprehensions .
About eleven o ’ clock in the morning they perceived Amiens , and at half past eleven they were at the door of the cursed inn .
Chapter XXII .
However , this is much , and calls for gratitude and Heaven has not taken away all my blessings when it leaves me your sympathy and kindness. ” At these words there appeared in Noirtier ’ s eye an expression of such deep meaning that the young girl thought she could read these words there : “ You are mistaken ; I can still do much for you. ” “ Do you think you can help me , dear grandpapa ? ” said Valentine .
“ Hush , ” whispered De Guiche , “ these are cavaliers. ” “ Yes , three on horseback and three who have dismounted. ” “ Can you see what they are doing ? ” “ Yes , they appear to be searching a wounded or dead man. ” “ It is some cowardly assassination , ” said De Guiche .
D ’ Artagnan gave the open letter to Kitty , who at first was unable to comprehend it , but who became almost wild with joy on reading it a second time .
The king was a few steps behind me , when suddenly I saw something rise up in front of me like a huge shadow .
Her cap was embroidered with pearls , the pins in her hair were of gold and diamonds , her girdle was of Turkey silk , with large embroidered flowers , her bodice and skirt were of cashmere , her apron of Indian muslin , and the buttons of her corset were of jewels .
His first look was certainly directed towards Monte Cristo , but the second was for Andrea .
To be a great chemist in the East , one must direct chance ; and this is to be achieved. ” Madame de Villefort was in deep thought , yet listened attentively .
“ You see , Mercédès , ” said the young man , “ here is Easter come round again ; tell me , is this the moment for a wedding ? ” “ I have answered you a hundred times , Fernand , and really you must be very stupid to ask me again. ” “ Well , repeat it , —repeat it , I beg of you , that I may at last believe it !
She opened , and found the word “ secret. ” “ Ah !
We are , and have been these ten years , connected with the house of Morrel & Son , of Marseilles .
“ What do you think of that interrogator ? ” asked Aramis .
You whose devotion recognizes neither country nor misfortune , you who are sent to me by Henrietta ; whatever news you bring , speak out. ” “ Sire , Cromwell has arrived this night at Newcastle. ” “ Ah ! ” exclaimed the king , “ to fight ? ” “ No , sire , but to buy your majesty. ” “ What did you say ? ” “ I said , sire , that four hundred thousand pounds are owing to the Scottish army. ” “ For unpaid wages ; yes , I know it .
The ball struck the animal full in front .
“ Patrick , remain here , or rather join the king , wherever he may be , and tell his Majesty that I humbly beg him to excuse me , but an affair of the greatest importance recalls me to London .
Chapter LXXII .
Consider , monsieur , the thing is absolutely impossible. ” “ Monsieur Bonacieux , ” said the commissary , looking at the accused as if his little eyes had the faculty of reading to the very depths of hearts , “ you have a wife ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” replied the mercer , in a tremble , feeling that it was at this point affairs were likely to become perplexing ; “ that is to say , I _had_ one. ” “ What , you ‘ _had_ one ’ ?
The Musketeer returned home hungry and in bad humor .
The next day , just as Debray was signing the deed , that is about five o ’ clock in the afternoon , Madame de Morcerf , after having affectionately embraced her son , entered the _coupé_ of the diligence , which closed upon her .
None of those interesting adventures fell in his way ; the lovely Genoese , Florentines , and Neapolitans were all faithful , if not to their husbands , at least to their lovers , and thought not of changing even for the splendid appearance of Albert de Morcerf ; and all he gained was the painful conviction that the ladies of Italy have this advantage over those of France , that they are faithful even in their infidelity .
Arrived at this last hue , it changed no more .
Albert instantly rose to meet him , but Franz remained , in a manner , spellbound on his chair ; for in the person of him who had just entered he recognized not only the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum , and the occupant of the box at the Teatro Argentina , but also his extraordinary host of Monte Cristo .
Really , my lord , you are his nightmare. ” The duke smiled with bitterness .
“ Disguised. ” “ It was very boldly written , if disguised. ” “ Stop a bit , ” said the abbé , taking up what he called his pen , and , after dipping it into the ink , he wrote on a piece of prepared linen , with his left hand , the first two or three words of the accusation .
If I were I should do for you at once the most that you deserve .
Have you really committed the crimes of which you are accused ? ’ The count looked around him with an expression which might have softened tigers , but which could not disarm his judges .
“ Save me !
A man carrying a long switch with a nail at the end of it , with which he urged on his slow team , was walking with the cart .
“ On the first story , do you see , there is the anteroom and the drawing-room ; to the right of the drawing-room , a library and a study ; to the left , a bedroom and a dressing-room .
Many women held their infants on their shoulders , and thus the children had the best view .
Here , Monsieur Mazarin is everything. ” “ Does he desire to play the part in France that Cromwell plays in England ? ” “ Oh , no !
The bird on the branch , the dog in his kennel , the sheep in the field , the boats moored in the Loire , even , became alive and vocal .
Chapter LXV .
Four shots replied to them almost instantaneously , but much better aimed than those of the aggressors ; three soldiers fell dead , and one of the pioneers was wounded .
Who occupies Number 3 ? ” “ The little fellow who arrived last night in a post-chaise with his sister , and who asked for an apartment with two beds. ” The bell here rang for the third time , with another shriek of anguish .
M. de Villefort would stifle the affair ; he had only to turn his eyes on one side , and allow Andrea to fly , and follow up the crime under that shadow of guilt called contempt of court .
Then I shall be free , I shall have an independent fortune , and ” — “ And what ? ” demanded Morrel .
Monseigneur will be with him in an hour. ” “ Good ! ” said Friquet , “ my fortune is made. ” “ By the way , ” said Bazin , “ where was he carried ? ” “ To the tower Saint Jacques la Boucherie ; ” and delighted with the success of his embassy , Friquet started off at the top of his speed .
“ Thanks , my dear friend , ” said Madame Danglars , trying to smile ; “ it is over now , and I am much better. ” Chapter 64 .
Are you hungry ? ” “ Humiliating as such a confession is , I am .
The names of all , including Carlini , were placed in a hat , and the youngest of the band drew forth a ticket ; the ticket bore the name of Diavolaccio .
Athos started , passed his hand over his brow to remove the drops of perspiration that burst forth , and rose in his turn with a nervous movement he could not repress .
“ Yes , monsieur , it is here he lives , ” the servant replied to Planchet , who was not in livery .
But on my soul , it looks so .
“ And now , gentlemen , I wish you good-morning , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ He regrets the devil !
These united considerations made Albert more lively and anxious to please than he had hitherto been .
You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that : • You pay a royalty fee of 20 % of the gross profits you derive from the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes .
Instead of performing your part of this contract , as I performed mine , you bought me from the Scotch , cheaply , I know , and that does honor to the economic talent of your government .
“ All I can tell about her , ” replied the countess , “ is , that she has been at Rome since the beginning of the season ; for I saw her where she now sits the very first night of the season , and since then she has never missed a performance .
The princes and princesses were invited and their carriages had crowded the court since noon ; then after dinner the queen was to have a play in her apartment .
[ 22 ] Literally , “ the basket , ” because wedding gifts were originally brought in such a receptacle .
Weigh your words before you speak , for my eyes have already become brighter , and my heart beats strongly ; be cautious , or you will make me believe in supernatural agencies .
Oh , my God , my God !
Andrea had not spoken without cause of the pretty rooms looking out upon the court of the Bell Hotel , which with its triple galleries like those of a theatre , with the jessamine and clematis twining round the light columns , forms one of the prettiest entrances to an inn that you can imagine .
He arose and stood near Mousqueton .
Chapter 43 .
The streets were crowded , for it was the day of Pentecost , and the crowd looked in wonder at these two cavaliers ; one as fresh as if he had come out of a bandbox , the other so covered with dust that he looked as if he had but just come off a field of battle .
“ On no pretense leave the door , for you know that last night my Lord punished a soldier for having quit his post for an instant , although I , during his absence , watched in his place. ” “ Yes , I know it , ” said the soldier .
But alas , if he was the friend of D ’ Artagnan , he must have lent him his assistance in all the proceedings by whose aid the queen had defeated the project of his Eminence ; if he was the friend of D ’ Artagnan , he was the enemy of the cardinal ; and she doubtless would succeed in involving him in the vengeance by which she hoped to destroy the young Musketeer .
Special rules , set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license , apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™ concept and trademark .
“ No , ” replied Athos , with a singular smile .
His features were writhing with those horrible symptoms which he already knew , and which had so seriously alarmed him when he saw them for the first time .
“ I own to you that that young man ’ s visit has subdued my appetite and probably will rob me of my sleep .
Are you there , now ? ” “ _Certes_ , ” replied Aramis , in a pleased tone , “ but the thing is subtle. ” “ The _fingers_ , ” resumed the Jesuit , “ St .
What object , think you , have this expedition to Ré and this league with the Protestants of La Rochelle which I am projecting ?
You may be overheard. ” “ Yes , you are right ; I should be ashamed for anyone to know your baseness. ” “ But what do you require of me , then ?
“ Come , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who thought that it was now a convenient time to begin his interrogations , “ dost thou know where Athos is ? ” “ No , sir , ” replied Planchet .
Then Athos raised his hand and pointing to the coffin : “ This temporary sepulture is , ” he said , “ that of a man who was of feeble mind , yet one whose reign was full of great events ; because over this king watched the spirit of another man , even as this lamp keeps vigil over this coffin and illumines it .
If I made you that present it was that you might adorn yourself therewith .
You were my tutor , why did you not teach me to swim ? ” “ Oh , monsieur le comte , ” replied the old man , “ had any misfortune happened to you , I should never have dared to show myself to the marshal again. ” “ But how did the accident happen ? ” asked Raoul .
“ Now the mischief is out ; depend upon it the custom-house people went rummaging about the ship in our absence , and discovered poor Dantès ’ hidden treasures. ” Mercédès , however , paid no heed to this explanation of her lover ’ s arrest .
It was a pledge , a remembrance .
In after years , whether he had forgotten this interchange of presents , which ought to have cemented our friendship , or whether he did not recollect me , he sought to take me , but , on the contrary , it was I who captured him and a dozen of his band .
“ I didn ’ t understand it all , ” he said , “ but I understand now ; how droll it is ! ” “ You think so ?
Adieu , my noble and generous friend , adieu ; I will go and tell Valentine what you have done for me. ” And slowly , though without any hesitation , only waiting to press the count ’ s hand fervently , he swallowed the mysterious substance offered by Monte Cristo .
Ay , but it is for the first time , madame ! ” “ I did not say France , my lord ; I said the cardinal , and the cardinal is not even a Frenchman. ” “ But did you see the queen ? ” “ It is useless , ” replied Henrietta , “ the queen will not say yes when the cardinal says no .
“ Yes , doubtless ; and is it not that he may never do us any harm ? ” Mercédès shuddered , and , fixing on her son a scrutinizing gaze , “ You speak strangely , ” said she to Albert , “ and you appear to have some singular prejudices .
How did you leave the count ? ” continued he .
Dantès had spoken of Mercédès , and Villefort instantly recognized her .
There are moments when a man grows young again in his children. ” The duchess smiled , half tenderly , half ironically .
To you I will say , ‘ Have you not , madame , put aside some of the surest , deadliest , most speedy poison ? ’ ” 50170m “ Oh , pardon me , sir ; let me live ! ” “ She is cowardly , ” said Villefort .
He had frequently called for capital punishment on criminals , and owing to his irresistible eloquence they had been condemned , and yet the slightest shadow of remorse had never clouded Villefort ’ s brow , because they were guilty ; at least , he believed so ; but here was an innocent man whose happiness he had destroyed .
Have pity on me , then , and ask for me , not intelligence , but a trial ; not pardon , but a verdict—a trial , sir , I ask only for a trial ; that , surely , can not be denied to one who is accused ! ” “ We shall see , ” said the inspector ; then , turning to the governor , “ On my word , the poor devil touches me .
“ The image of devastation and death , ” as the ancient poet says , “ reigned as over a field of battle. ” Of fifty large sausages , suspended from the joists , scarcely ten remained .
As to D ’ Artagnan , he remained perfectly insensible to the enthusiasm of the two men in black .
“ No , my lord , and I will set out at once .
The order is positive .
They turned the bowsprit towards Sardinia , where they intended to take in a cargo , which was to replace what had been discharged .
The night passed in perfect silence .
“ There is but one way left you that is safe , ” said she ; “ it is through my grandfather ’ s room. ” She rose .
Bonacieux .
Queen , destined as you are to endure every sorrow on this earth , hear the result of our unhappy mission. ” Athos , kneeling down before the queen , trembling and very cold , drew from his bosom , inclosed in the same case , the order set in diamonds which the queen had given to Lord de Winter and the wedding ring which Charles I. before his death had placed in the hands of Aramis .
This affirmation appeared to dispel all doubts with regard to the baldric .
One terrible idea pressed upon her mind , —that someone existed in the world who had attempted to assassinate her , and who was about to endeavor to do so again .
“ You will not reply , however , and these gentlemen , I am sure , will presently be of my opinion. ” Aramis shook his head with a motion of indescribable insolence .
[ 26 ] _Savate_ : an old shoe .
“ It was a long time before I was able to make out what place I was in , or to take account of the details I describe .
I am very anxious to see this man .
She remained at the same spot standing mute and motionless .
“ Come , come , ” continued the count , “ complaints are unavailing , be a man , be strong , be full of hope , for I am here and will watch over you. ” Morrel shook his head sorrowfully .
“ But fortunately the world is a sepulcher ; the men , and consequently the women , are but shadows , and love is a sentiment to which you cry , ‘ Fie !
The duke tore open the note , passed his hands over his eyes , for he was dazzled and confused , and read : “ My Dear Duke , —You may entirely confide in the brave lad who will give you this note ; he has consented to enter the service of your keeper and to shut himself up at Vincennes with you , in order to prepare and assist your escape , which we are contriving .
“ Yes , since she lives. ” At that moment d ’ Avrigny ’ s glance met Noirtier ’ s eye .
I dislike these quarrels among men of the church. ” Gondy withdrew , distributing benedictions on his way , and finding a malicious satisfaction in causing the adherents of his foes to prostrate themselves at his feet .
Valentine , by means of her love , her patience , and her devotion , had learned to read in Noirtier ’ s look all the varied feelings which were passing in his mind .
one can easily see it comes from a priest. ” Gondy remained firm , and the abuse of the day seemed to glide over his head as the sarcasms of the evening before had done ; but hatred and revenge were accumulating in his heart silently and drop by drop .
pardieu ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you know you will not be my prisoner very long. ” “ No , ” said Aramis , “ they will doubtless treat us like the prisoners of the Philipghauts. ” “ And how were they treated ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ Yes. ” Franz took them from Barrois and casting a glance at the cover , read : “ ‘ To be given , after my death , to General Durand , who shall bequeath the packet to his son , with an injunction to preserve it as containing an important document. ’ “ Well , sir , ” asked Franz , “ what do you wish me to do with this paper ? ” “ To preserve it , sealed up as it is , doubtless , ” said the procureur .
“ Tell Vitray to come to me , ” said he , “ and tell him to get ready for a journey. ” An instant after , the man he asked for was before him , booted and spurred .
They had traveled onward about half a mile when Planchet came close up to D ’ Artagnan .
In conscience , I can not kill him ; and yet , ” added he , with a coldly menacing expression , “ he annoys me .
You will restore them to her Majesty ; and as a last memorial ” —he looked round for some valuable object— “ you will add— ” He still sought ; but his eyes , darkened by death , encountered only the knife which had fallen from the hand of Felton , still smoking with the blood spread over its blade .
Those fellows strike hard , and don ’ t leave off in a hurry .
Some minutes after , the superior of the convent sent to inform the Musketeers that the burial would take place at midday .
He was with you just now .
Fernand was a Spaniard , and being sent to Spain to ascertain the feeling of his fellow-countrymen , found Danglars there , got on very intimate terms with him , won over the support of the royalists at the capital and in the provinces , received promises and made pledges on his own part , guided his regiment by paths known to himself alone through the mountain gorges which were held by the royalists , and , in fact , rendered such services in this brief campaign that , after the taking of Trocadero , he was made colonel , and received the title of count and the cross of an officer of the Legion of Honor. ” “ Destiny !
“ The one you bought will then become useless to you ? ” “ Nearly so. ” “ And you selected it yourself ? ” “ With the greatest care .
He shut himself in his room , and tried to read , but his eye glanced over the page without understanding a word , and he threw away the book , and for the second time sat down to sketch his plan , the ladders and the fence .
“ How ?
As I expected , my officer was there .
The noise had ceased ; but it seemed that Morrel expected something—something had occasioned the noise , and something must follow .
“ What , M. Morrel ! ” said he in a low voice , “ you send us away ; you are then angry with us ! ” “ No , no , ” said M. Morrel , “ I am not angry , quite the contrary , and I do not send you away ; but I have no more ships , and therefore I do not want any sailors. ” “ No more ships ! ” returned Penelon ; “ well , then , you ’ ll build some ; we ’ ll wait for you. ” “ I have no money to build ships with , Penelon , ” said the poor owner mournfully , “ so I can not accept your kind offer. ” “ No more money ?
Hold ; see !
On entering the courtyard of the old chateau the first person seen by our ambassador was Maitre Bernouin in person , who , standing on the threshold , awaited news of his vanished master .
You are accused of treason , of abuse of power , and murder .
I never saw more simple tastes united to greater magnificence .
The Bracieux estate was a few leagues from Villars-Cotterets .
you will find good cigars on the centre table .
Great personages may have had a hand in what you have seen , and if talked about , the evil would only recoil upon us. ” “ Ah , monsieur ! ” stammered Planchet , more dead than alive , “ ah , monsieur , what an escape I have had ! ” “ How , sirrah !
D ’ Artagnan was again in the presence of the Circe who had before surrounded him with her enchantments .
What !
“ What are these things ? ” replied Anne , with queen-like dignity , extending toward the open coffer an arm , despite the lapse of years , still beautiful .
“ If he only remains here a fortnight , and pays for what he drinks , I shall soon re-establish my business. ” “ And don ’ t forget , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ to bring up four bottles of the same sort for the two English gentlemen. ” “ And now , ” said Athos , “ while they bring the wine , tell me , D ’ Artagnan , what has become of the others , come ! ” D ’ Artagnan related how he had found Porthos in bed with a strained knee , and Aramis at a table between two theologians .
Can you see the air you breathe , and yet without which you could not for a moment exist ? ” “ Then we do not see those beings to whom you allude ? ” “ Yes , we do ; you see them whenever God pleases to allow them to assume a material form .
The two assistants carried Andrea up to the scaffold ; the people all took part against Andrea , and twenty thousand voices cried , “ Put him to death !
Do not fly , then .
She tried to be agreeable , and she was charming , winning the good superior by her varied conversation and by the graces of her whole personality .
“ Then , ” said D ’ Artagnan , letting his arm fall with discouragement , “ it is useless to struggle longer .
One passed at the moment , which he hailed ; he gave his address to the driver , and springing in , threw himself on the seat , and gave loose to dreams of ambition .
Gondy , who began to feel uneasy , examined the tapestry with his eyes , touched the coat of mail which he wore under his long gown and felt from time to time to see if the handle of a good Spanish dagger , which was hidden under his cloak , was well within reach .
“ But the dead can not return their fire. ” “ Certainly not !
In the daytime nobody was seen there but mendicants devouring their crusts , and children at play .
Everyone spoke , harangued , and vociferated , swearing , cursing , and consigning the cardinal and his Guards to all the devils .
Let us save them half of their journey. ” And without caring whether he were followed or not he set off ; his regiment , which bore the name of the regiment of Corinth , from the name of his archbishopric , darted after him and began the fight .
Upon the side next the ground were scratched the following words : “ Eight of the light dragoons are pursuing us .
Now the successor of Pere Marteau had promised him a pate of pheasant instead of a pate of fowl , and Chambertin wine instead of Macon .
gentlemen , ” said Aramis , “ decidedly it is a night for meetings .
Bonacieux .
“ 500,000 ? ” The same expression continued .
[ 5 ] Scott , of course : “ The son of an ill-fated sire , and the father of a yet more unfortunate family , bore in his looks that cast of inauspicious melancholy by which the physiognomists of that time pretended to distinguish those who were predestined to a violent and unhappy death. ” —The Abbot , ch .
“ ‘ But allow me to say that you must have been very young then. ’ — ‘ I was four years old ; but as those events deeply concerned me , not a single detail has escaped my memory. ’ — ‘ In what manner could these events concern you ?
Take this pen , and write ! ” Caderousse , awed by the superior power of the abbé , sat down and wrote : “ Sir , —The man whom you are receiving at your house , and to whom you intend to marry your daughter , is a felon who escaped with me from confinement at Toulon .
“ But wait a minute. ” Anne of Austria ran to her jewel case .
You must show me the proofs against him. ” “ Certainly ; but you will find terrible charges. ” “ Monsieur , ” continued Dantès , “ I know it is not in your power to release me ; but you can plead for me—you can have me tried—and that is all I ask .
I know it will end in that way ; but it is not they who taunt me with the most wounding reproaches , but—— ” “ I understand ; you mean to allude to the recollections perpetually revived by these three gentlemen .
Speak , ” said the monk .
Certainly , after witnessing the culpable indolence manifested by M. de Villefort towards his own relations , I ought to have denounced him to the authorities ; then I should not have been an accomplice to thy death , as I now am , sweet , beloved Valentine ; but the accomplice shall become the avenger .
Besides , if he will do nothing officially , he will answer any questions you propose to him .
I shall be back here by the first of March , and on the second I give my real marriage feast. ” This prospect of fresh festivity redoubled the hilarity of the guests to such a degree , that the elder Dantès , who , at the commencement of the repast , had commented upon the silence that prevailed , now found it difficult , amid the general din of voices , to obtain a moment ’ s tranquillity in which to drink to the health and prosperity of the bride and bridegroom .
I looked into the kitchen once more and saw Caderousse sitting by the side of a long table upon one of the low wooden stools which in country places are frequently used instead of chairs ; his back was turned towards me , so that I could not see the expression of his countenance—neither should I have been able to do so had he been placed differently , as his head was buried between his two hands .
“ Then you know what I have suffered , ” said Mme .
Though all bowed before her , as etiquette required , she had now but a single arm on which she could lean .
Stories of gypsies , who steal children , are not at all in vogue in this part of the world , and would not be believed .
You , count , who are more than mortal , will , I am sure , lead me to death by a pleasant path , will you not ? ” 50267m “ My friend , ” said the count , “ I have still one doubt , —are you weak enough to pride yourself upon your sufferings ? ” “ No , indeed , —I am calm , ” said Morrel , giving his hand to the count ; “ my pulse does not beat slower or faster than usual .
His glance was so full of hate , of ferocity , and savage impatience , that Villefort turned out of the path he had been pursuing , to see upon what person this dark look was directed .
Mazarin !
And now you will do me a favor , will you not ? ” “ What is it ? ” “ Do not introduce me to any of these gentlemen ; and should they wish it , you will warn me. ” Just then the count felt his arm pressed .
When arrived there , the cause of the hubbub was apparent to all .
Chapter LXVIII .
30083m The curtain rose , as usual , to an almost empty house , it being one of the absurdities of Parisian fashion never to appear at the opera until after the beginning of the performance , so that the first act is generally played without the slightest attention being paid to it , that part of the audience already assembled being too much occupied in observing the fresh arrivals , while nothing is heard but the noise of opening and shutting doors , and the buzz of conversation .
Just as he was passing the count ’ s box , the door opened , and Monte Cristo came forth .
The blood no longer flowed from his wounds .
“ I have only kept this secret so long from you , ” continued Faria , “ that I might test your character , and then surprise you .
“ Monsieur Porthos was six feet high ; this man is scarcely five. ” “ Nevertheless , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ the people are bowing very low to this person. ” As he spoke , he rode toward the tall horse—to the man of importance and his valets .
These twenty millions are concealed in my grotto at Monte Cristo , of which Bertuccio knows the secret .
“ So , ” replied de Winter , laughing , “ that beautiful hair so skillfully disheveled , that white skin , and that languishing look , have not yet seduced you , you heart of stone ? ” “ No , my Lord , ” replied the impassive young man ; “ your Lordship may be assured that it requires more than the tricks and coquetry of a woman to corrupt me. ” “ In that case , my brave lieutenant , let us leave Milady to find out something else , and go to supper ; but be easy !
At the second turn , the count stopped the carriage , and requested permission to withdraw , leaving the vehicle at their disposal .
Very well what did I say to you ?
We have cruelly wounded , as you know , that personal pride by which D ’ Artagnan is blindly governed .
“ To meddle in politics , ” he exclaimed , in a languid voice , leaning back in his easy-chair .
“ That ’ s exactly what my wife said , monseigneur. ” “ Do you know who carried off your wife ? ” “ No , monseigneur. ” “ You have suspicions , nevertheless ? ” “ Yes , monseigneur ; but these suspicions appeared to be disagreeable to Monsieur the Commissary , and I no longer have them. ” “ Your wife has escaped .
“ For a long time a gun had been the young man ’ s greatest ambition .
“ You are examining my den , ” said Aramis .
are you going to drown me ? ” These cries had something so heartrending in them that M. d ’ Artagnan , who had been at first the most eager in pursuit of Milady , sat down on the stump of a tree and hung his head , covering his ears with the palms of his hands ; and yet , notwithstanding , he could still hear her cry and threaten .
The doctors , anxious for my lungs , had prescribed the air of Naples .
His host here was a good fellow from Picardy , who gave him all the information he needed .
I have torn up two of my shirts , and as many handkerchiefs as I was master of , to complete the precious pages .
The fowl had not been poisoned—she had died of apoplexy .
The coadjutor went to him and held out his hand .
“ Is this all ? ” “ No , I have for the end of the month these bills which have been assigned to us by the house of Pascal , and the house of Wild & Turner of Marseilles , amounting to nearly 55,000 francs ; in all , 287,500 francs. ” It is impossible to describe what Morrel suffered during this enumeration .
the emetic ! —is it come yet ? ” No one answered .
de Bernet were exiled , and Laporte did not conceal from his mistress that he expected to be arrested every instant .
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ( “ the Foundation ” or PGLAF ) , owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works .
You are the son of my aunt , consequently my cousin ; you come from Noyon , in Picardy ; you have several lawsuits and no attorney .
Before Felton replied , and before she should be forced to resume this conversation , so difficult to be sustained in the same exalted tone , she let her hands fall ; and as if the weakness of the woman overpowered the enthusiasm of the inspired fanatic , she said : “ But no , it is not for me to be the Judith to deliver Bethulia from this Holofernes .
“ Yes , I understand , ” said Valentine ; “ it is because you love me. ” The old man assented .
“ Two or three times a week .
“ Bravo ! ” said the captain .
I missed her by twenty minutes at St. Omer .
On the opposite side two cavaliers , one covered with a gilt cuirass , the other wearing simply a buff doublet , from which fell the sleeves of a vest of blue velvet , charged in front .
30327m She then turned towards the avenue .
The door , as it opened , disclosed a gloomy sky , in which the moon strove vainly to struggle through a sea of clouds that covered her with billows of vapor which she illumined for an instant , only to sink into obscurity .
It seems you must always be playing some game or other. ” “ Yes ; and that reminds me that I have a revenge to take .
D ’ Artagnan asked them what they wished and why they had taken that position .
The prophecy which the wounded man had just uttered recurred to Grimaud , who turned away his head .
“ You are right , duchess .
Now after what you told me this morning of your heart , I may believe—— ” “ Well , count , ” replied Morrel gayly , “ I will not dispute it. ” “ But you will not make me your confidant , Maximilian ? ” said the count , in a tone which showed how gladly he would have been admitted to the secret .
“ Yes , as you see , neighbor Caderousse ; and ready to be agreeable to you in any and every way , ” replied Dantès , but ill-concealing his coldness under this cloak of civility .
Thus all my opinions—I will not say public , but private—are confined to these three sentiments , —I love my father , I respect M. Morrel , and I adore Mercédès .
Only a few minutes ago they brought me the _tavolettas_. ” “ What are they ? ” “ Sort of wooden tablets hung up at the corners of streets the evening before an execution , on which is pasted up a paper containing the names of the condemned persons , their crimes , and mode of punishment .
If D ’ Artagnan forgets his host , or appears to forget him , under the pretense of not knowing where he has been carried , we will not forget him , and we know where he is .
The eye of the old man was riveted upon a spot which Villefort could scarcely distinguish .
Ah , I miss three , they were here last night , sir—I am sure they were here—I counted them .
let us draw lots ! ’ cried all the brigands , when they saw the chief .
As the shadows of night deepened the troops summoned by the prince arrived in successive detachments .
Ah , let him say now if he does not recognize me ! ’ Each word fell like a dagger on Morcerf , and deprived him of a portion of his energy ; as she uttered the last , he hid his mutilated hand hastily in his bosom , and fell back on his seat , overwhelmed by wretchedness and despair .
“ Ah , it ’ s all one , ” said the host ; “ I have lost two customers , but this one remains , of whom I am pretty certain for some days to come .
“ I will not detain you , monsieur , ” continued the countess ; “ I would not have our gratitude become indiscreet or importunate. ” “ My dear Count , ” said Albert , “ I will endeavor to return your politeness at Rome , and place my coupé at your disposal until your own be ready. ” “ A thousand thanks for your kindness , viscount , ” returned the Count of Monte Cristo “ but I suppose that M. Bertuccio has suitably employed the four hours and a half I have given him , and that I shall find a carriage of some sort ready at the door. ” Albert was used to the count ’ s manner of proceeding ; he knew that , like Nero , he was in search of the impossible , and nothing astonished him , but wishing to judge with his own eyes how far the count ’ s orders had been executed , he accompanied him to the door of the house .
There is something so awe-inspiring in great afflictions that even in the worst times the first emotion of a crowd has generally been to sympathize with the sufferer in a great catastrophe .
Edmond had one friend only , and thus it can not be divided .
and what will that signify to me ?
At St. Omer they breathed their horses with the bridles passed under their arms for fear of accident , and ate a morsel from their hands on the stones of the street , after they departed again .
“ Morrel , ” said he , “ it is a happy day for me , to feel that I am beloved by such a man as you .
Athos smiled when he saw their bare swords ; he felt it was no longer to be a butchery , but a fight , and he resumed his usual good humor .
“ Athos , then , went to pay a visit to one of his friends absent at the time , ” continued Tréville , “ to a young Béarnais , a cadet in his Majesty ’ s Guards , the company of Monsieur Dessessart , but scarcely had he arrived at his friend ’ s and taken up a book , while waiting his return , when a mixed crowd of bailiffs and soldiers came and laid siege to the house , broke open several doors— ” The cardinal made the king a sign , which signified , “ That was on account of the affair about which I spoke to you. ” “ We all know that , ” interrupted the king ; “ for all that was done for our service. ” “ Then , ” said Tréville , “ it was also for your Majesty ’ s service that one of my Musketeers , who was innocent , has been seized , that he has been placed between two guards like a malefactor , and that this gallant man , who has ten times shed his blood in your Majesty ’ s service and is ready to shed it again , has been paraded through the midst of an insolent populace ? ” “ Bah ! ” said the king , who began to be shaken , “ was it so managed ? ” “ Monsieur de Tréville , ” said the cardinal , with the greatest phlegm , “ does not tell your Majesty that this innocent Musketeer , this gallant man , had only an hour before attacked , sword in hand , four commissaries of inquiry , who were delegated by myself to examine into an affair of the highest importance. ” “ I defy your Eminence to prove it , ” cried Tréville , with his Gascon freedom and military frankness ; “ for one hour before , Monsieur Athos , who , I will confide it to your Majesty , is really a man of the highest quality , did me the honor after having dined with me to be conversing in the saloon of my hôtel , with the Duc de la Trémouille and the Comte de Châlus , who happened to be there. ” The king looked at the cardinal .
“ I beg your pardon , sir , ” said the honest fellow , in almost breathless haste , “ but I believe you made a mistake ; you intended to give me a two-franc piece , and see , you gave me a double Napoleon. ” “ Thank you , my good friend .
The young woman complied .
One must take the world as one finds it .
“ Let us try and overtake this gentleman , ” said Raoul to Olivain ; “ like ourselves he is on his way to join the army and may prove agreeable company. ” It was about four o ’ clock in the afternoon when Raoul arrived at Compiegne ; there he dined heartily and again inquired about the young gentleman who was in advance of them .
“ Well , since there is another finer and younger , why , you may take the old one ; and let us drink. ” “ What ? ” asked the host , quite cheerful again .
Trembling , his hair erect , his brow bathed with perspiration , he counted the seconds by the beating of his heart .
The prisoners , transported the previous evening from the Carceri Nuove to the little church of Santa Maria del Popolo , had passed the night , each accompanied by two priests , in a chapel closed by a grating , before which were two sentinels , who were relieved at intervals .
Athos played , and that as a rule unfortunately .
Egad !
D ’ Artagnan went straight to the sergeant .
Why , having recognized you , and I the only one to do so—why was I able to save my son alone ?
Bonacieux came in ; and to remove all suspicion , if she had any , Milady repeated to the lackey , before her , the latter part of her instructions .
“ And what is your choice ? ” asked Jussac .
“ Come , my friend , ” he said , thrusting his hand through the opening , “ where are we going ? ” “ _Dentro la testa ! _ ” answered a solemn and imperious voice , accompanied by a menacing gesture .
“ Madame , I never eat Muscatel grapes , ” replied Monte Cristo , as if the subject had not been mentioned before .
At the first glance , and by the joy which was painted on his countenance , the worthy captain plainly perceived that something new was on foot .
This pretended D ’ Artagnan—was he not an emissary of the cardinal , whom the cardinal sought to introduce into Tréville ’ s house , to place near him , to win his confidence , and afterward to ruin him as had been done in a thousand other instances ?
Progress of Cavalcanti the Younger Chapter 77 .
My son , I bless thee ! ” The young man cast himself on his knees , leaning his head against the old man ’ s bed .
The instant the letter was written , Carlini seized it , and hastened to the plain to find a messenger .
Conclusion .
“ Why , one of them is a rich lord from Touraine and the other a knight of Malta , of noble family .
“ Seven of his Eminence ’ s Guards placed _hors de combat_ by you four in two days !
“ Bravo ! ” cried one of the guests ; “ that is what I call talking to some purpose. ” “ Just the person we require at a time like the present , ” said a second .
Aramis ! ” The two Musketeers with whom we have already made acquaintance , and who answered to the last of these three names , immediately quitted the group of which they had formed a part , and advanced toward the cabinet , the door of which closed after them as soon as they had entered .
As the Rochellais who guarded the bastion were ignorant of the intentions of the man they saw coming toward them , they fired upon him , and he fell , struck by a ball which broke his shoulder .
Well , madame , it proved to be as we had supposed ; there was a mistake .
However , if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website ( www.gutenberg.org ) , you must , at no additional cost , fee or expense to the user , provide a copy , a means of exporting a copy , or a means of obtaining a copy upon request , of the work in its original “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other form .
“ Yes , my Lord , ” replied the young man , confused .
I must confess that I was mistaken .
As the carriage stopped at the door , and Albert was alighting , a man approached and gave him a letter .
Let us act in freedom , that we may act well and quickly. ” “ I shall go , ” he said , “ to the queen. ” “ Well , then , ” answered Aramis , “ pray tell me a day or two beforehand , that I may take that opportunity of going to Paris. ” “ To whom ? ” “ Zounds !
Poor brute—accustomed to be covered up and to have a stove in the stable , the Arabian finds himself unable to bear ten degrees of cold in Arabia. ” “ That ’ s why you want to purchase my English horse , ” said Debray , “ you think he will bear the cold better. ” “ You are mistaken , for I have made a vow never to return to Africa. ” “ You were very much frightened , then ? ” asked Beauchamp .
That evening Milady was still more impatient than on the preceding evening .
At the sight of him she expected , though probably not in such a costume , the young woman started in terror , and was about to make a hasty retreat .
“ Well , I hope you will make a handsome wedding-present the day you marry Mademoiselle Danglars. ” “ I have already told you it is a fancy you have taken in your head. ” “ What fortune has she ? ” “ But I tell you—— ” “ A million ? ” Andrea shrugged his shoulders .
He then laid him down on the floor , where D ’ Artagnan , after giving him just time enough to draw his breath , gagged him with his long scarf ; and the moment he had done so began to undress him with the promptitude and dexterity of a man who had learned his business on the field of battle .
I will introduce you to him , for it will be necessary he should know you , as he is to pay your money. ” “ Full dress ? ” said the major , half aloud .
of Danglars ? ” “ Yes , to be sure ; must I say Baron Danglars ?
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE , STRICT LIABILITY , BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3 .
“ Well , ” said Villefort , “ what is it ? —Who rang ? —Who asked for me ? ” “ A stranger who will not send in his name. ” “ A stranger who will not send in his name !
How old was she ? ” “ Franz assured me , ” replied Albert , “ that she was sixty-six years old .
If you venture again into the house in which I have met you this evening , I will dare it myself. ’ I really think I must have been frightened .
I know your prosperity is great , you rascal ; you are to marry the daughter of Danglars. ” “ What ?
My father was not a bit behind yours in that sort of talk .
The first object that met the eyes of D ’ Artagnan on entering the room was Brisemont , stretched upon the ground and rolling in horrible convulsions .
“ If I did not fear to fatigue you , ” said the general , evidently charmed with the count ’ s manners , “ I would have taken you to the Chamber ; there is a debate very curious to those who are strangers to our modern senators. ” “ I shall be most grateful , monsieur , if you will , at some future time , renew your offer , but I have been flattered with the hope of being introduced to the countess , and I will therefore wait. ” “ Ah , here is my mother , ” cried the viscount .
He came there , and the plan was unfolded to him for leaving Elba , the projected landing , etc .
You see I am more candid than you. ” ’ ” “ Ah , my father ! ” said Franz , interrupting himself .
After a short time , the count saw Bertuccio , who , until then , had been occupied on the other side of the house , glide into an adjoining room .
The Duc d ’ Elbeuf obtained payment of certain sums due to his wife , one hundred thousand francs for his eldest son and twenty-five thousand for each of the three others .
The sultans and viziers who rule over society there , and who constitute what in France we call the government , are really Haroun-al-Raschids and Giaffars , who not only pardon a poisoner , but even make him a prime minister , if his crime has been an ingenious one , and who , under such circumstances , have the whole story written in letters of gold , to divert their hours of idleness and _ennui_. ” “ By no means , madame ; the fanciful exists no longer in the East .
“ Are you ready , sir ? ” he said at last .
“ ‘ Do not seek your wife , ’ ” read D ’ Artagnan ; “ ‘ she will be restored to you when there is no longer occasion for her .
We avoid imprisonment and we play the part of heroes ; the choice is easy. ” “ It is true ; but in everything , friend , one must always return to the same question—a stupid one , I admit , but very necessary—have you any money ? ” “ Something like a hundred pistoles , that my farmer sent to me the day before I left Bragelonne ; but out of that sum I ought to leave fifty for Raoul—a young man must live respectably .
Take her six bottles of different wine—Cyprus , sherry , and Malaga , and a barrel of Ostend oysters ; get them at Borel ’ s , and be sure you say they are for me. ” “ At what o ’ clock , sir , do you breakfast ? ” 20227m “ What time is it now ? ” “ A quarter to ten. ” “ Very well , at half past ten .
“ What , ” said the notary , “ do you not intend making Mademoiselle Valentine de Villefort your residuary legatee ? ” “ No. ” “ You are not making any mistake , are you ? ” said the notary ; “ you really mean to declare that such is not your intention ? ” “ No , ” repeated Noirtier ; “ No. ” Valentine raised her head , struck dumb with astonishment .
Besides , you know , I had the idea that you could introduce me into some of the Paris salons when I came to France .
A TERRIBLE VISION Chapter XLI .
Dantès raised himself up and began to talk about everything ; about the bad quality of the food , about the coldness of his dungeon , grumbling and complaining , in order to have an excuse for speaking louder , and wearying the patience of his jailer , who out of kindness of heart had brought broth and white bread for his prisoner .
He had not heard a carriage stop in the street , or steps in the antechamber ; the door had itself opened noiselessly .
In another hour every light in the house was extinguished , and it might have been thought that all its inmates slept .
A GASCON A MATCH FOR CUPID The evening so impatiently waited for by Porthos and by D ’ Artagnan at last arrived .
“ Shame , shame , for four Musketeers to allow an unfortunate fellow who cried for help to be arrested in their midst !
“ Well , my dear friend , win it—it is at the point of your sword .
Do you think I ever sleep , then ?
“ Swords , then ! ” cried Aramis , “ swords !
“ Speak out , there ’ s a worthy fellow. ” “ Your excellencies are aware , ” responded the landlord , swelling with importance , “ that the Count of Monte Cristo is living on the same floor with yourselves ! ” “ I should think we did know it , ” exclaimed Albert , “ since it is owing to that circumstance that we are packed into these small rooms , like two poor students in the back streets of Paris. ” “ When , then , the Count of Monte Cristo , hearing of the dilemma in which you are placed , has sent to offer you seats in his carriage and two places at his windows in the Palazzo Rospoli. ” The friends looked at each other with unutterable surprise .
“ Our purveyor ! ” “ Yes , your purveyor , Godeau—the purveyor of the Musketeers. ” “ My faith !
He had assumed the entire costume of Cucumetto .
See the sneaks come , without drum or trumpet .
The feast had been made ready on the second floor at La Réserve , with whose arbor the reader is already familiar .
It is dangerous to go to war with a nation .
The vessel did touch at Elba , where he quitted it , and passed a whole day in the island .
He was at the moment conversing cheerfully with Morrel , but he was well prepared for what might happen .
You do not know what he is about in the cellar .
He had always something or other to do .
“ Ah , it is you , my lord ! ” said he .
He questioned me concerning Captain Leclere ’ s death ; and , as the latter had told me , gave me a letter to carry on to a person in Paris .
Still further , the Jew told them that if they would sell it to him , as it would make a magnificent pendant for earrings , he would give five hundred pistoles for it .
The two notaries were holding a consultation as to the best means of proceeding with the affair .
Ah , ” added the count , in a contemptuous tone , “ do not tell me of European punishments , they are in the infancy , or rather the old age , of cruelty. ” “ Really , count , ” replied Franz , “ one would think that you had studied the different tortures of all the nations of the world. ” “ There are , at least , few that I have not seen , ” said the count coldly .
Chapter LX .
He was the worst Musketeer and the most unconvivial companion imaginable .
“ Monsieur de Belliere , ” said he to one of them , “ do me the favor to take the reins from the hands of this worthy man , mount upon the box and drive to the door of the private stair , and wait for me there ; it is an affair of importance on the service of the king. ” The musketeer , who knew that his lieutenant was incapable of jesting with regard to the service , obeyed without a word , although he thought the order strange .
“ Barrois ? ” said she .
You know what it is to love , my Lord .
“ To the sheets , ” said he .
God , who might have directed the assassin ’ s dagger so as to end your career in a moment , has given you this quarter of an hour for repentance .
He found Beauchamp pacing the room ; on perceiving him Beauchamp stopped .
For part of the day he went into the courtyard , seated himself on a stone with his head bare and exposed to the blazing sun .
“ Fear nothing , ” he said ; “ I have my conditions to impose .
Not a penny of what I possess will pass into your hands .
Making a sign to La Houdinière and Cahusac to stop , he alighted from his horse , and went toward these suspected merry companions , hoping , by means of the sand which deadened the sound of his steps and of the hedge which concealed his approach , to catch some words of this conversation which appeared so interesting .
Ah ! ” Bonacieux inferred from this “ Ah ” that the affair grew more and more intricate .
What would you have two men without arms do against eight armed men ? ” “ Two men—how do you mean ? ” “ Yes , the king and his lackey. ” “ Oh !
“ What are you doing ? ” cried Kitty .
Only think what the poor fellow may even now be suffering. ” Villefort shuddered at the suggestion ; but he had gone too far to draw back .
Coquenard was in the dilemma of Harpagan .
“ It is , nevertheless , conclusive to my mind .
That cousin of Aramis , that Marie Michon , that needlewoman , notwithstanding her low condition , had acquaintances in the highest rank ; she called the grandest ladies of the court her friend , and the queen—proud as she is , in her double character as Austrian and as Spaniard—called her her sister. ” “ Alas ! ” said Madame de Chevreuse , with a slight sigh and a little movement of her eyebrows that was peculiarly her own , “ since that time everything has changed. ” “ And the queen had reason for her affection , for Marie was devoted to her—devoted to that degree that she served her as medium of intercourse with her brother , the king of Spain. ” “ Which , ” interrupted the duchess , “ is now brought up against her as a great crime. ” “ And therefore , ” continued Athos , “ the cardinal—the true cardinal , the other one—determined one fine morning to arrest poor Marie Michon and send her to the Chateau de Loches .
But do you know where ? ” “ No. ” “ In the king ’ s room. ” “ The king ’ s room ? ” cried Athos .
Fool that I was !
As to that , we know D ’ Artagnan ’ s courage ; he exposed himself freely to danger and while charging at the head of his company he received a ball through the chest which laid him prostrate on the field of battle .
At that instant , the moon , inquisitive , perhaps , like D ’ Artagnan , came from behind a cloud and by her light D ’ Artagnan recognized the large blue eyes , the golden hair and the classic head of the Duchess de Longueville .
“ What has she written to me ? ” said Buckingham , feebly , streaming with blood , and suppressing his agony to speak of her he loved , “ what has she written to me ?
“ But , ” said he , “ did you observe one very singular thing ? ” “ What ? ” “ How attentively he looked at you. ” “ At me ? ” “ Yes. ” Albert reflected .
Oh , I am guilty , then ; you will not pardon me ? ” The monk recovered his usual expression .
I have bought them , and stationed them myself at the most desirable posts , that is , in villages , where no one generally stops. ” “ That ’ s well , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I remain here a day or two—arrange accordingly. ” As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give the requisite orders , Baptistin opened the door : he held a letter on a silver waiter .
40074m Haydée looked up abruptly , as if the sonorous tones of Monte Cristo ’ s voice had awakened her from a dream ; and she resumed her narrative .
HUNTING FOR THE EQUIPMENTS Chapter XXX .
He ran to Porthos and threw himself into his arms ; the whole body of servants , arranged in a semi-circle at a respectful distance , looked on with humble curiosity .
“ Well , then , be more affectionate , my dear Villefort , ” said the baroness .
“ Are we mistaken , and is Dantès triumphant in spite of all we have believed ? ” “ Why , we must inquire into that , ” was Caderousse ’ s reply ; and turning towards the young man , said , “ Well , Catalan , can ’ t you make up your mind ? ” Fernand wiped away the perspiration steaming from his brow , and slowly entered the arbor , whose shade seemed to restore somewhat of calmness to his senses , and whose coolness somewhat of refreshment to his exhausted body .
Provided Charles is dead , it is the axe , not the man , we must thank. ” “ And yet , without the man , the king would have been rescued. ” Cromwell smiled .
speak , make haste. ” “ Bind my arms , my lord , fast. ” “ Why bind thee ? ” “ That I may not be considered as your accomplice. ” “ Your hands ? ” asked Grimaud .
“ And we are going to be recompensed for our diligence ? ” continued the mercer , with a trifling alteration in his voice—so trifling , indeed , that D ’ Artagnan did not perceive it any more than he had the momentary shade which , an instant before , had darkened the countenance of the worthy man .
“ Come , ” said the count mildly , “ do not entertain the prejudices of ordinary men , Morrel !
This fortnight expired , he decided that the inspector would do nothing until his return to Paris , and that he would not reach there until his circuit was finished , he therefore fixed three months ; three months passed away , then six more .
“ Come , gentlemen , ” cried Harrison , regardless of his illustrious captive , “ let us be off. ” “ Where do we sleep , colonel ? ” “ At Thirsk , ” replied Harrison .
“ What ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Think , if I am found out here , the people of the house , who have not seen me enter it , will take me for a thief. ” “ True , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
A strange thing is the mind , and it is wonderful what revolutions may be wrought in it by a sign , a word , a hope .
I gave the custom-house officers a copy of our bill of lading ; and as to the other papers , they sent a man off with the pilot , to whom I gave them. ” “ Then you have nothing more to do here ? ” “ No—everything is all right now. ” “ Then you can come and dine with me ? ” “ I really must ask you to excuse me , M. Morrel .
The clerks , who , as it appeared , had smelled unusual perfumes in the house , were of military punctuality , and held their stools in hand quite ready to sit down .
About seven o ’ clock in the evening , the boatman had taken over a young woman , wrapped in a black mantle , who appeared to be very anxious not to be recognized ; but entirely on account of her precautions , the boatman had paid more attention to her and discovered that she was young and pretty .
Besides , had he not begged of Morcerf not to mention his father ’ s name before Haydée ?
While all the proceedings relative to the dissolution of the marriage-contract were being carried on at the house of M. de Villefort , Monte Cristo had paid his visit to the Count of Morcerf , who , in order to lose no time in responding to M. Danglars ’ wishes , and at the same time to pay all due deference to his position in society , donned his uniform of lieutenant-general , which he ornamented with all his crosses , and thus attired , ordered his finest horses and drove to the Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin .
I shall follow the count ’ s directions. ” “ Not under present circumstances , monsieur. ” “ Perhaps you mean to disobey me ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , I must. ” “ You persist , then ? ” “ Yes , I am going ; may you be happy , monsieur , ” and Grimaud saluted and turned toward the door to go out .
He was in the front row of the crowd , admirably placed for seeing ; and as on the whole the sight was curious , he probably wished to stay to the end. ” “ Ah Comte de la Fere , ” said a calm voice , though hoarse with running , “ is it your habit to calumniate the absent ? ” This reproof stung Athos to the heart , but as the impression produced by seeing D ’ Artagnan foremost in a coarse , ferocious crowd had been very strong , he contented himself with replying : “ I am not calumniating you , my friend .
Going along , D ’ Artagnan , shaking his head , said : “ I know that my going to Athos is useless and absurd ; but still I owe this courtesy to my old friend , a man who had in him material for the most noble and generous of characters. ” “ Oh , Monsieur Athos was a noble gentleman , ” said Planchet , “ was he not ?
“ Sire , it is something more opaque than the fog. ” “ Indeed ! ” said Winter , “ it appears to me like a bar of red color. ” “ It is the enemy , who have made a sortie from Newcastle and are surrounding us ! ” exclaimed Athos .
Treat him kindly , therefore , in the future. ” “ Captain , ” said the young king to D ’ Artagnan , on descending from the carriage , “ the queen has charged me to invite you to dinner to-day—you and your friend the Baron du Vallon. ” That was a great honor for D ’ Artagnan and for Porthos .
But I wonder she is not here .
He therefore narrated to the prince what they had seen from the inn at Mazingarbe .
Ah , really this is magnificent !
‘ Do I turn to the right , or to the left hand ? ’ “ ‘ To the right , ’ said Caderousse .
“ I won ’ t hold my tongue ! ” replied Caderousse ; “ I say I want to know why they should put Dantès in prison ; I like Dantès ; Dantès , your health ! ” and he swallowed another glass of wine .
And that is a mousetrap .
Ten minutes afterwards , the sails were furled , and they cast anchor about a hundred fathoms from the little harbor .
We have served them to the best of our poor means , and God will recompense the will , forgive the want of power .
I hoped to be able to rely upon that. ” “ And I , madame ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , embarrassed ; “ you promised me— ” “ Take my arm , madame , ” said the stranger , “ and let us continue our way. ” D ’ Artagnan , however , stupefied , cast down , annihilated by all that happened , stood , with crossed arms , before the Musketeer and Mme .
He placed the cloak on his shoulders and the hat on his head , whilst the musketeer got off the box .
You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works .
“ I want to know the route I am to follow , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ What is it ? ” said she , starting at Madame Danglars ’ touch as she would have done from an electric shock .
It is not natural that a man like you should possess such a diamond .
Aramis looked after them , and as the last of them passed close to him he pressed the hand of Athos .
“ Only three or four days ago the impertinent jackanapes gave me his bill , and I was forced to turn both him and his bill out of the door ; so that I am here something in the fashion of a conqueror , holding my position , as it were , my conquest .
On the landing they were no longer fighting , but amused themselves with stories about women , and in the antechamber , with stories about the court .
In this case , however , although the occasion of the entertainment was similar , the company was strikingly dissimilar .
Valentine found her grandmother in bed ; silent caresses , heartwrung sobs , broken sighs , burning tears , were all that passed in this sad interview , while Madame de Villefort , leaning on her husband ’ s arm , maintained all outward forms of respect , at least towards the poor widow .
I shall wait for you here till seven. ” The young man bent low , with an expression of sorrow and gratitude mingled , and retired in order to saddle his horse .
But the kings of modern times , restrained by the limits of mere probability , have neither courage nor desire .
Obey that person implicitly .
As for the Count of Monte Cristo , he had never for an instant shown any appearance of having been moved .
At that moment D ’ Artagnan passed in pursuit of Milady ; he cast a passing glance at Porthos , and beheld this triumphant look .
“ No , mother , —capital 3,000 francs .
Mousqueton stood at the door and Porthos was inside the carriage .
He said , ‘ As to your friend , tell him he may sleep in peace. ’ ” “ Good , very good , ” said Porthos ; “ that signified as clear as daylight that he still intends to make me a baron. ” At this moment nine o ’ clock struck .
Lord de Winter did the same .
In less than five minutes he arrived at the end of the cord .
Horticulture seemed , however , to have been abandoned in the deserted kitchen-garden ; and where cabbages , carrots , radishes , peas , and melons had once flourished , a scanty crop of lucern alone bore evidence of its being deemed worthy of cultivation .
The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States .
“ As I told you , everything can be attained , Porthos , women and doors , by proceeding with gentleness. ” “ You ’ re a great moralist , and that ’ s the fact , ” said Porthos .
Shall we go together ? ” “ You annoyed , count ? ” said Beauchamp ; “ and by what ? ” “ Ah , you think very lightly of it ; I should like to see you with a brief preparing in your house. ” “ What brief ? ” “ The one M. de Villefort is preparing against my amiable assassin—some brigand escaped from the gallows apparently. ” “ True , ” said Beauchamp ; “ I saw it in the paper .
does the cardinal refuse to receive the king ?
Have you seen him ? ” “ I left him five days ago , ” said D ’ Artagnan , and he portrayed with Gascon wit and sprightliness the magnificence of Porthos in his Chateau of Pierrefonds ; nor did he neglect to launch a few arrows of wit at the excellent Monsieur Mouston .
The count ’ s serious face was illumined by a faint smile , as he noticed the portfolio which the receiver-general held in his hand .
“ Now go and tell Athos and Aramis to stand on each side of the door and clap their hands if they catch him .
Thus , we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
“ Mademoiselle ’ s lady ’ s maid says , sir , that mademoiselle is finishing her toilette , and will be here shortly. ” Danglars nodded , to signify that he was satisfied .
Morrel , I possess nearly a hundred millions and I give them to you ; with such a fortune you can attain every wish .
I am a ruined man , lost , destroyed ! ” “ Bah , ” said Athos , “ we were always dry. ” “ If you had been contented with drinking , well and good ; but you have broken all the bottles. ” “ You pushed me upon a heap which rolled down .
“ A great pity , ” said Monte Cristo .
Upon the eighth day he discerned a small vessel under full sail approaching Monte Cristo .
Hence , it resulted when D ’ Artagnan proceeded to draw his sword in earnest , he found himself purely and simply armed with a stump of a sword about eight or ten inches in length , which the host had carefully placed in the scabbard .
To-day , look around you , and it may astonish you , that in order to accomplish a plan which is dearer to me than life I have only Lord de Winter , the friend of twenty years , and you , gentlemen , whom I see for the first time and whom I know but as my countrymen. ” “ It is enough , ” said Athos , bowing low , “ if the lives of three men can purchase yours , madame. ” “ I thank you , gentlemen .
I have always found them ; and more , —I repeat it with joy , with triumph , —I have always found some proof of human perversity or error .
“ Does it require much study to learn the art of telegraphing ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
“ And what is it to you ? ” replied the king ; “ we are not of the same religion. ” “ All men are brothers , ” said the Puritan .
But talking of heat , is there nothing I can offer you by way of refreshment ? ” “ Yes ; let me have a bottle of your best wine , and then , with your permission , we will resume our conversation from where we left off. ” “ As you please , sir , ” said Caderousse , who , anxious not to lose the present opportunity of finding a customer for one of the few bottles of Cahors still remaining in his possession , hastily raised a trap-door in the floor of the apartment they were in , which served both as parlor and kitchen .
Life is full of humiliations and sorrows , ” continued he , becoming still more melancholy ; “ all the ties which attach him to life break in the hand of man , particularly the golden ties .
persons whom I do not like ! ” “ Yes , indeed .
“ I am in a fever , ” said she ; “ I have not slept a single instant during all this long night .
An officer approached .
“ I promised to come , ” said Felton , “ and I have come. ” “ You promised me something else. ” “ What , my God ! ” said the young man , who in spite of his self-command felt his knees tremble and the sweat start from his brow .
“ Madame , ” replied Valentine , “ he has not even breakfasted .
While he was endeavoring to calm his fears , —and instead of dwelling upon the political future that had so often been the subject of his ambitious dreams , was imagining a future limited to the enjoyments of home , in fear of awakening the enemy that had so long slept , —the noise of a carriage sounded in the yard , then he heard the steps of an aged person ascending the stairs , followed by tears and lamentations , such as servants always give vent to when they wish to appear interested in their master ’ s grief .
The sea , knowing what was required of her , threw over them her weeds , encircled them with coral , and encrusted them with shells ; the whole was cemented by two hundred years beneath these almost impervious depths , for a revolution carried away the emperor who wished to make the trial , and only left the documents proving the manufacture of the jars and their descent into the sea .
But there is nothing which would do ! —nothing ! ” 40114m “ Oh , sir , ” cried Barrois , “ are you going to let me die without help ?
What was most pressing was to get Mme .
I could have drunk fifty bottles more. ” D ’ Artagnan could no longer endure this conversation , which had made him bewildered .
“ Besides , do you know what is our situation , and whether Mazarin ’ s arrest wouldn ’ t be rather an encumbrance than an advantage ? ” “ Say at once you disapprove of my proposal. ” “ I think you ought to do nothing , since you exacted a promise from these gentlemen not to let Mazarin know that we were in France. ” “ I have entered into no engagement and consider myself quite free .
Mousqueton had a magnificent livery , and enjoyed the satisfaction of which he had been ambitious all his life—that of standing behind a gilded carriage .
“ That order does not concern me , ” replied Milady , coldly , “ since it bears another name than mine. ” “ A name ?
Did you ever see anything more perfect than her acting ? ” “ Why , you know , my dear fellow , when one has been accustomed to Malibran and Sontag , such singers as these don ’ t make the same impression on you they perhaps do on others. ” “ At least , you must admire Moriani ’ s style and execution. ” “ I never fancied men of his dark , ponderous appearance singing with a voice like a woman ’ s. ” “ My good friend , ” said Franz , turning to him , while Albert continued to point his glass at every box in the theatre , “ you seem determined not to approve ; you are really too difficult to please. ” The curtain at length fell on the performances , to the infinite satisfaction of the Viscount of Morcerf , who seized his hat , rapidly passed his fingers through his hair , arranged his cravat and wristbands , and signified to Franz that he was waiting for him to lead the way .
my dear Athos ! ” “ You know that I am not alluding to you ; you are the pearl of brave , bold men .
As the day advanced , the tumult became greater .
I shall soon return ; and if you will wait only a few minutes for me , as soon as I have concluded my business with that friend , as it is growing late , I will come back and reconduct you to the Louvre. ” “ Thank you , monsieur , you are not brave enough to be of any use to me whatever , ” replied Mme .
I can not bear duelling ever since two seconds , whom I had chosen to arrange an affair , forced me to break the arm of one of my best friends , one whom you all know—poor Franz d ’ Épinay. ” “ Ah , true , ” said Debray , “ you did fight some time ago ; about what ? ” 20235m “ The devil take me , if I remember , ” returned Château-Renaud .
It was high time for her to make her appearance at the gate , for Maximilian had long awaited her coming .
Haydée , would it please you not to leave me ? ” “ I am young , ” gently replied Haydée ; “ I love the life you have made so sweet to me , and I should be sorry to die. ” “ You mean , then , that if I leave you , Haydée—— ” “ I should die ; yes , my lord. ” “ Do you then love me ? ” “ Oh , Valentine , he asks if I love him .
After having deprived me of my liberty , after having deprived me of death , after having recalled me to existence , my God , have pity on me , and do not let me die in despair ! ” 0193m “ Who talks of God and despair at the same time ? ” said a voice that seemed to come from beneath the earth , and , deadened by the distance , sounded hollow and sepulchral in the young man ’ s ears .
This obliged them to make all the speed they could to evade the enemy , when they could but lament the absence of Dantès , whose superior skill in the management of a vessel would have availed them so materially .
This apparition was so strange and so solemn , that everyone rose , with the exception of Carlini , who remained seated , and ate and drank calmly .
He asked where their masters were , and was informed that they had passed the night in the inn , and were then settling their bill with the host .
But the clerks were not the dupes of this deceit , and their lugubrious looks settled down into resigned countenances .
“ Well , now let us talk a little seriously , ” said Milady , in her turn drawing her armchair nearer to D ’ Artagnan ’ s chair .
Besides , had not the deputy , who had been so kind to him , told him that provided he did not pronounce the dreaded name of Noirtier , he had nothing to apprehend ?
My only fear is that he will be too strong for you. ” “ My friend , ” said Morcerf , with a sweet smile , “ that is what I wish .
The young man had found Signor Pastrini looking very much alarmed , and this had only made him the more anxious to read Albert ’ s letter ; and so he went instantly towards the waxlight , and unfolded it .
Felton had not spoken .
“ Alas !
MEN OF THE ROBE AND MEN OF THE SWORD Chapter XVI .
I was obliged to pick it up in order not to compromise him and the lady he loves .
“ Well , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , bending his mouth to Athos ’ s ear , and lowering his voice , “ Milady is marked with a _fleur-de-lis_ upon her shoulder ! ” “ Ah ! ” cried the Musketeer , as if he had received a ball in his heart .
“ Yes , my lord , the pure parliament. ” “ What do you mean by ‘ the pure parliament ’ ?
The two assistants had borne Andrea to the scaffold , and there , in spite of his struggles , his bites , and his cries , had forced him to his knees .
“ Never , never ! ” “ I believe you , ” said Mme .
What is it ? ” “ Listen , ” said the guide ; “ I said to myself , ‘ Something is always left in a cell inhabited by one prisoner for fifteen years , ’ so I began to sound the wall. ” “ Ah , ” cried Monte Cristo , remembering the abbé ’ s two hiding-places .
There are about two hundred in Paris and three thousand in France ; and then , perhaps , on entering the convent he changed his name .
I have studied chemistry because , having determined to live in eastern climates I have been desirous of following the example of King Mithridates. ” “ _Mithridates , rex Ponticus_ , ” said the young scamp , as he tore some beautiful portraits out of a splendid album , “ the individual who took cream in his cup of poison every morning at breakfast. ” “ Edward , you naughty boy , ” exclaimed Madame de Villefort , snatching the mutilated book from the urchin ’ s grasp , “ you are positively past bearing ; you really disturb the conversation ; go , leave us , and join your sister Valentine in dear grandpapa Noirtier ’ s room. ” “ The album , ” said Edward sulkily .
“ Madame Danglars is ill , ” said Villefort ; “ it would be better to take her to her carriage. ” “ Oh , _mon Dieu ! _ ” said Monte Cristo , “ and I have forgotten my smelling-bottle ! ” “ I have mine , ” said Madame de Villefort ; and she passed over to Monte Cristo a bottle full of the same kind of red liquid whose good properties the count had tested on Edward .
I will come and ask mine at eleven o ’ clock this evening .
“ This lady , ” said the Count , speaking to Ali in the Arabic language , “ is desirous that her son should thank you for saving both their lives ; but the boy refuses , saying you are too ugly. ” Ali turned his intelligent countenance towards the boy , on whom he gazed without any apparent emotion ; but the spasmodic working of the nostrils showed to the practiced eye of Monte Cristo that the Arab had been wounded to the heart .
Edmond , it is not Madame de Morcerf who is come to you , it is Mercédès. ” “ Mercédès is dead , madame , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I know no one now of that name. ” “ Mercédès lives , sir , and she remembers , for she alone recognized you when she saw you , and even before she saw you , by your voice , Edmond , —by the simple sound of your voice ; and from that moment she has followed your steps , watched you , feared you , and she needs not to inquire what hand has dealt the blow which now strikes M. de Morcerf. ” “ Fernand , do you mean ? ” replied Monte Cristo , with bitter irony ; “ since we are recalling names , let us remember them all. ” Monte Cristo had pronounced the name of Fernand with such an expression of hatred that Mercédès felt a thrill of horror run through every vein .
They proposed a game of _bouillotte_ .
Danglars immediately advanced towards the door and opened it .
He rushed headlong to the street , and like the Greek from Marathon who fell in the square at Athens , with his laurel in his hand , Friquet reached Councillor Broussel ’ s threshold , and then fell exhausted , scattering on the floor the louis disgorged by his leather bag .
40064m Albert had proceeded no farther than the door , where he remained rooted to the spot , being completely fascinated by the sight of such surpassing beauty , beheld as it was for the first time , and of which an inhabitant of more northern climes could form no adequate idea .
Juxon consented the more readily to take him with him , as he would require an assistant priest in case the king should wish to communicate .
Parry knew this room , as he had often been to see me when the king was at Newcastle .
Her lips were cold ; it appeared to D ’ Artagnan that he had embraced a statue .
Why , I did not expect to see you before tomorrow. ” “ My dear Albert , ” replied Franz , “ I am glad of this opportunity to tell you , once and forever , that you entertain a most erroneous notion concerning Italian women .
Ah , good heaven !
so you are not a Mazarinist ?
“ D ’ Artagnan !
At last , however , we succeeded , and worked up to Arles .
Ali was his principal attendant during this nocturnal survey .
Run to Torlonia , draw from him instantly four thousand piastres , and give them to the bearer .
They galloped on for two or three hours as furiously as the cavaliers on the wall .
“ Not exactly , it is the wine that was sent by your order. ” “ On our account ? ” said the three Musketeers .
If you want anything you can ring. ” “ Oh , my God , my God !
He was in a small room which Franz had not yet seen , and which was surrounded with divans .
The sight of this creature , who had nothing of the woman about her , recalled awful remembrances .
D ’ Artagnan saw that the moment was come .
There is good and holy action to be performed , monsieur , and much money to be gained at the same time. ” Mme .
It was quite dark , and no one saw them go out .
we are coming to your aid. ” Olivain advanced , retired , then made his horse rear—turned it and then , struck to the core by shame , leaped , as Raoul had done , only repeating : “ I am a dead man !
ah ! ” said Porthos , opening his eyes at that last word .
“ Then I forgive you , ” said the man , dropping his cloak , and advancing to the light .
“ ‘ I have killed your chief , Cucumetto , whose dress I now wear ; and I set fire to the villa San-Felice to procure a wedding-dress for my betrothed. ’ “ An hour afterwards Luigi Vampa was chosen captain , vice Cucumetto , deceased. ” 20129m “ Well , my dear Albert , ” said Franz , turning towards his friend ; “ what think you of citizen Luigi Vampa ? ” “ I say he is a myth , ” replied Albert , “ and never had an existence. ” “ And what may a myth be ? ” inquired Pastrini .
When she wakes she can sup. ” And he made some steps toward the door .
From that lucky moment Scarron led a happy life , spending both income and principal .
Sire , the usurper is arming three ships , he meditates some project , which , however mad , is yet , perhaps , terrible .
“ I will repair it , indeed I will , my dear Porthos. ” “ Besides , what did I ask of you ? ” resumed Porthos , with a movement of the shoulders full of good fellowship .
It appears to me that we have an account to settle with him , and that it is not our custom to leave a place without paying our debts , of this kind , at least. ” “ Ah !
“ Alas , dear mother , ” said the young man , “ I have unhappily spent too much of your money not to know the value of it .
If he closed his eyes , he saw Cardinal Spada ’ s letter written on the wall in characters of flame—if he slept for a moment the wildest dreams haunted his brain .
I confess it openly .
‘ If he is here ’ —this is what the other man said— ‘ let ’ s see decidedly what to do with him. ’ “ ‘ What to do with him ? ’ answered the prince .
“ Oh , mon Dieu !
The other was a large square epistle , resplendent with the terrible arms of his Eminence the cardinal duke .
Halloo !
The fowl pecked at the rabbit , and the next day was a dead hen .
What tenderness , my sister ! ” “ But am I not your nearest relative ? ” demanded Milady , with a tone of the most touching ingenuousness .
that is a large sum .
“ Or , take care , Morrel , lest I call you ungrateful. ” “ Have pity on me , count ! ” “ I feel so much pity towards you , Maximilian , that—listen to me attentively—if I do not cure you in a month , to the day , to the very hour , mark my words , Morrel , I will place loaded pistols before you , and a cup of the deadliest Italian poison—a poison more sure and prompt than that which has killed Valentine. ” “ Will you promise me ? ” “ Yes ; for I am a man , and have suffered like yourself , and also contemplated suicide ; indeed , often since misfortune has left me I have longed for the delights of an eternal sleep. ” “ But you are sure you will promise me this ? ” said Morrel , intoxicated .
the _Pharaon_ ! ” said every voice .
Now , in the opinion of D ’ Artagnan , it was certainly the man in the black cloak who had carried off Mme .
She had had for an instant an inclination to be reconducted to the cardinal , and relate everything to him ; but a revelation on her part would bring about a revelation on the part of Athos .
Why did we not destroy the child with the mother ? ” “ What need you fear ? ” said Athos , recovering from the instinctive fear he had at first experienced , by the aid of reason ; “ are we not men accustomed to defend ourselves ?
Your host ? ” “ That is to say , yes and no. ” “ How yes and no ? ” “ He furnishes it , it is true , but he does not know that he has that honor. ” “ Explain yourself , Mousqueton ; your conversation is full of instructive things. ” “ That is it , monsieur .
“ Mazarin again .
“ Ah , the traitor ! ” and he disappeared .
Where and when have you seen me trifle with a friend ’ s heart and a king ’ s life ?
“ ‘ Now , ’ he said to Teresa , ‘ are you ready to share my fortune , whatever it may be ? ’ “ ‘ Oh , yes ! ’ exclaimed the young girl enthusiastically .
If not , I will apply to the chancellor , I will apply to the king , I will apply to the hangman , I will move the courts against you , I will denounce you as branded , I will bring you to trial ; and if you are acquitted , well , by the faith of a gentleman , I will kill you at the corner of some wall , as I would a mad dog. ’ ” “ I like the means well enough , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ but where and how to meet with her ? ” “ Time , dear friend , time brings round opportunity ; opportunity is the martingale of man .
“ We must understand each other , ” said the duke .
“ To Leghorn. ” “ Then why , instead of tacking so frequently , do you not sail nearer the wind ? ” “ Because we should run straight on to the Island of Rion. ” “ You shall pass it by twenty fathoms. ” “ Take the helm , and let us see what you know. ” The young man took the helm , felt to see if the vessel answered the rudder promptly and seeing that , without being a first-rate sailor , she yet was tolerably obedient .
Let me meditate and consider. ” “ Meditate and consider as much as you like , ” replied Porthos , who was now quite out of humor at seeing things take this turn .
The cavalier laughed aloud , which appeared to exasperate Milady still more .
“ Gentlemen , I will see the king this evening ; but as to you , I do not advise you to risk doing so. ” This advice was too reasonable , and moreover came from a man who knew the king too well , to allow the four young men to dispute it .
“ Do you hear ? ” said the king .
“ Good God ! ” cried he , laughing , “ I quite despair of my poor Michon ; she will never write like Monsieur de Voiture. ” “ What does you mean by boor Michon ? ” said the Swiss , who was chatting with the four friends when the letter came .
At about what time did we see the two Swiss guards walking yesterday ? ” “ An hour after sunset. ” “ If they go out to-day as they did yesterday we shall have the honor , then , of seeing them in half an hour ? ” “ In a quarter of an hour at most. ” “ Your arm is still strong enough , is it not , Porthos ? ” Porthos unbuttoned his sleeve , raised his shirt and looked complacently on his strong arm , as large as the leg of any ordinary man .
You say you have nothing to do with my cash box .
She only witnessed the withdrawal of the arm—the fair round arm of a woman but twenty-five years old , and who yet spread death around her .
“ At last , ” said Aramis , “ we are ready , are we ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , quite ready , ” said Bazin ; “ but it took me some time to bring up all the—— ” “ Because you always think you have on your shoulders your beadle ’ s robe , and spend all your time reading your breviary .
50065m “ Woman , siren that you are , do you persist in fixing on me that fascinating eye , which reminds me that I ought to blush ?
Bonacieux .
Caderousse ’ s knife , dark lantern , bunch of keys , and clothing , excepting the waistcoat , which could not be found , were deposited at the registry ; the corpse was conveyed to the morgue .
Had the unhappy man on whom she lavished her assiduities been previously acquainted with her , so sudden an alteration might well have excited suspicion in his mind , or at least have greatly astonished him .
In my opinion , a withdrawal from Paris is absolutely necessary after the double catastrophe of Mademoiselle Danglars ’ broken contract and M. Danglars ’ disappearance .
The pleasure of seeing you .
He invited me to dine with him on Saturday , which was a very natural thing for him to do .
HOW , WITHOUT INCOMMDING HIMSELF , ATHOS PROCURES HIS EQUIPMENT D ’ Artagnan was so completely bewildered that without taking any heed of what might become of Kitty he ran at full speed across half Paris , and did not stop till he came to Athos ’ s door .
He found D ’ Artagnan waiting for him already at his post in the ante-room .
“ Eh !
One day you acknowledged that you loved me , and since that day my hope of future happiness has rested on obtaining you , for to gain you would be life to me .
If the second copy is also defective , you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem .
where is Providence ? ” “ My son , ” replied the bishop , with firmness , “ you see Him not , because the passions of the world conceal Him. ” “ My son , ” said the king to Aramis , “ do not take it so to heart .
The floor of the abbé ’ s cell was paved , and it had been by raising one of the stones in the most obscure corner that Faria had been able to commence the laborious task of which Dantès had witnessed the completion .
“ Father , ” he exclaimed , turning pale as death , “ what are you going to do with that brace of pistols under your coat ? ” “ Oh , this is what I feared ! ” said Morrel .
The young men first approached the dead man .
Night had closed in , and Paris , seen thus , by the light of lanterns flickering on the pools of water , crowded with ferry-boats of every kind , including those that glittered with the armed patrols , with the watchword , passing from post to post—Paris presented such an aspect as to strongly seize the senses of Aramis , a man most susceptible to warlike impressions .
“ _Che cosa ? _ ” asked the bandit .
He would have inquired after them of their mistresses , but he was neither acquainted with Porthos ’ s nor Aramis ’ s , and as to Athos , he had none .
Why the devil , then , do we plague ourselves about money , when there is a diamond ? ” “ Stop a bit ! ” said Aramis .
D ’ Artagnan , taking with him three trusses of straw , returned to the chateau , where everybody , freezing with cold and more than half asleep , envied the king , the queen , and the Duke of Orleans , on their camp beds .
Well , I will amuse you. ” “ How ? ” “ By introducing to you a new acquaintance. ” “ A man or a woman ? ” “ A man. ” “ I know so many men already. ” “ But you do not know this man. ” “ Where does he come from—the end of the world ? ” “ Farther still , perhaps. ” “ The deuce !
I am your landlord. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , half rising and bowing ; “ you are my landlord ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , yes .
my God !
“ You are free , ” he said , “ through me ; your liberty was my ransom. ” “ Agreed ; but the ransom of that immense treasure buried under the gallery , to which one descends on pushing a spring hidden in the wall , which causes a tub to turn , revealing a staircase—must not one speak of that a little , my lord ? ” “ Diavolo ! ” cried Mazarin , almost choked , and clasping his hands ; “ I am a lost and ruined man ! ” But without listening to his protestations of alarm , D ’ Artagnan slipped him gently down into the arms of Athos , who stood immovable at the bottom of the wall .
“ And will you direct us ? ” exclaimed the young man .
“ You are right , sir , ” said Athos .
It is the people who do not obey that I punish , and not those who , like you , obey—but too well .
Now let us return to your particular world .
“ In that case , gentlemen , have the kindness to retire into the corners , so as to give us ample room .
Dantès reviewed his past life with composure , and , looking forward with terror to his future existence , chose that middle line that seemed to afford him a refuge .
And they pursued their road in mournful silence .
Perhaps some accident has happened to him. ” “ I will hasten , ” replied Franz .
‘ Why , ’ said he , ‘ does not the emperor , who has devised so many clever and efficient modes of improving the art of war , organize a regiment of lawyers , judges and legal practitioners , sending them in the hottest fire the enemy could maintain , and using them to save better men ? ’ You see , my dear , that for picturesque expression and generosity of spirit there is not much to choose between the language of either party .
Salute my hero , viscount. ” And he stepped on one side to give place to a young man of refined and dignified bearing , with large and open brow , piercing eyes , and black moustache , whom our readers have already seen at Marseilles , under circumstances sufficiently dramatic not to be forgotten .
On the days when he won he was insolent and ostentatious ; if he lost , he disappeared completely for several days , after which he reappeared with a pale face and thinner person , but with money in his purse .
“ That last order is useless , ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan ; “ there are loaded pistols in your holsters. ” Bazin sighed .
Morrel had no particular reason for uneasiness ; Monte Cristo had promised him that Valentine should live , and so far he had always fulfilled his word .
He could not understand how Albert ’ s fiery nature , of which he had seen so much among the Roman bandits , had suddenly stooped to this humiliation .
“ Come , come , ” said he , “ will the Restoration adopt imperial methods so promptly ?
The idiot ! ” “ How so , if he loved her ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
This news , false as it was following so singularly in the train of the two similar misfortunes which had so recently occurred , evidently astonished the auditors , and they retired without a word .
Grimaud sprang up .
My mother tried to force the door , that she might go and die with him , but it was fastened on the inside .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is in Monsieur Dessessart ’ s Guards , and this gentleman is in the company of Monsieur de Tréville ’ s Musketeers .
Happily for him he has ceased to bear that name. ” “ And therefore , ” said D ’ Artagnan , resolved to be patient to the end , “ it is not Aramis I seek , but the Abbé d ’ Herblay .
If I have committed an additional crime , punish me , but if you will allow that ever since the day of my birth my fate has been sad , bitter , and lamentable , then pity me. ” “ But your mother ? ” asked the president .
But—and I say it with some pride , Mercédès—God needed me , and I lived .
Skirmishing .
“ But what shall you do with him ? ” “ With whom ? ” “ With Albert. ” “ What shall I do with Albert ?
And he moved out of the way to let the mercer pass .
It was , then , into the midst of this tumult and disorder that our young man advanced with a beating heart , ranging his long rapier up his lanky leg , and keeping one hand on the edge of his cap , with that half-smile of the embarrassed provincial who wishes to put on a good face .
Who says this Aramis is not a wit ?
She escaped the cruisers of both nations , and arrived at Boulogne without accident .
Bonacieux to take twenty steps ahead , and then followed them , ready to execute the instructions of the noble and elegant minister of Charles I. Fortunately , he had no opportunity to give the duke this proof of his devotion , and the young woman and the handsome Musketeer entered the Louvre by the wicket of the Echelle without any interference .
M. Morrel unhappy ? ” exclaimed the abbé .
As to what may lie before us , it is perhaps less serious than we at first thought .
“ Nay , madame , I pray you pardon this little traitor .
We lost five men , and the Rochellais eight or ten. ” “ _Balzempleu ! _ ” said the Swiss , who , notwithstanding the admirable collection of oaths possessed by the German language , had acquired a habit of swearing in French .
“ Why not ? ” “ Because he is an actor in the drama. ” “ Has he assassinated anyone , then ? ” “ No , on the contrary , they wished to assassinate him .
Be calm—for I am sure that D ’ Artagnan and Porthos are at Rueil , alive and well. ” “ But , ” resumed Athos , “ I recur to my first proposal .
We are so good and gentle to your eminence .
When he saw Luigi , he put his horse into a gallop and advanced toward him .
Villefort burst it open with a violent blow .
There ’ s a providence that watches over the deserving .
When he came up again the light had disappeared .
A present from an enemy is not a good thing .
Aramis made a bound , seized the letter , read it , or rather devoured it , his countenance radiant .
Then I feel as if I could adore Madame de Villefort. ” “ Do not be in such a hurry to do that , ” said Valentine , with a sad smile .
“ No , ” said Villefort ; “ only return again at eleven o ’ clock ; at twelve the—the—oh , Heavens , my poor , poor child ! ” and the procureur again becoming a man , lifted up his eyes and groaned .
However , the last two or three years I had allowed myself some respite .
A carriage waited at the door , the coachman was on the box , and a police officer sat beside him .
“ Ah , my poor friends ! ” murmured D ’ Artagnan ; “ where are you ?
If by chance our Amphitryon changes his mind and receives only Porthos and myself , why , then , we must resort to heroic measures and each give two strokes instead of one .
Chapter 3 .
“ Sir , ” said he , with compressed lips and flashing eyes , “ you have not the presumption to instruct the Comte de la Fere and myself what we ought to say here ? ” During this brief altercation Athos , with his hands on his heart , his head bent low , approached the queen and in a voice of deepest sorrow said : “ Madame , princes—who by nature are above other men—receive from Heaven courage to support greater misfortunes than those of lower rank , for their hearts are elevated as their fortunes .
Another proof that he was a native of the universal country was apparent in the fact of his knowing no other Italian words than the terms used in music , and which like the “ goddam ” of Figaro , served all possible linguistic requirements .
The queen had just regained her chamber , and D ’ Artagnan was about to retire , when he felt his shoulder lightly touched .
And yet if we burn it , who knows whether Monsieur Cardinal has not a secret to interrogate ashes ? ” “ He must have one , ” said Athos .
And , sir , where does he reside , pray ? ” “ The Comte de la Fere lodges in the Rue Guenegaud , Hotel du Grand Roi Charlemagne. ” “ Thanks , sir .
M. Noirtier has evinced , you say , a kind feeling towards me .
Mazarin , who was sitting at a table folding up papers , as if he had only been a secretary of state , looked up .
He then set himself to work to count his fortune .
Is he living ? ” “ Patience , monseigneur , we are coming to it .
If we are not , we shall have all the time to talk , and nobody will hear us—for I guarantee the walls of the bastion have no ears ; if we are , we will talk of our affairs just the same .
He entered the hotel and ascended the front steps , and addressing a footman who waited there in a grand livery , asked if the Duchess de Chevreuse was visible and if she could receive the Comte de la Fere ?
Were her fears realized ?
at midnight , my lord. ” “ At midnight , my dear Monsieur Louvieres. ” When once more alone Gondy sent to summon all the curates with whom he had any connection to his house .
Peppino passed , lighted his torch , and turned to see if they came after him .
“ That Bonacieux. ” “ I have done with him all that could be done .
D ’ Artagnan returned to change his workman ’ s clothes for his chestnut-colored suit , and Porthos to put on his red doublet .
On leaving these ladies he found himself with Danglars , who had advanced to meet him .
MEANS FOR CLASSICAL TRAGEDY Chapter LVIII .
“ What is this ? ” asked the captain .
They had arrested him for the purpose of robbery , and as he had only a few louis about him , he doubted not he would be ransomed .
Then he passed his hand across his forehead , which was clouded with doubt .
Pray come to my aid , madame ; do not these circumstances appeal to your memory ? ” “ No , indeed , ” replied Madame de Villefort ; “ and yet it appears to me , sir , that if I had met you anywhere , the recollection of you must have been imprinted on my memory. ” “ Perhaps the count saw us in Italy , ” said Valentine timidly .
The watch might come up and take all the combatants , wounded or not , royalists or cardinalists .
You are the king ’ s servant , and must go wherever that service calls you. ” “ Oh , Villefort ! ” cried Renée , clasping her hands , and looking towards her lover with piteous earnestness , “ be merciful on this the day of our betrothal. ” The young man passed round to the side of the table where the fair pleader sat , and leaning over her chair said tenderly : “ To give you pleasure , my sweet Renée , I promise to show all the lenity in my power ; but if the charges brought against this Bonapartist hero prove correct , why , then , you really must give me leave to order his head to be cut off. ” Renée shuddered at the word _cut_ , for the growth in question had a head .
“ Excuse me , gentlemen , ” said Morrel , “ but I do not see M. de Morcerf. ” “ He sent us word this morning , ” replied Château-Renaud , “ that he would meet us on the ground. ” “ Ah , ” said Morrel .
“ I foresee in it the aid of powerful princes. ” “ With the enmity of the government. ” “ Counteracted by parliament and insurrections. ” “ That may be done if they can separate the king from his mother. ” “ That may be done , ” said Aramis .
The young king approached his mother and said , “ Why do as these people ask ? ” “ It must be so , my son , ” said Anne of Austria .
If you had taken what Madame de Villefort has poured into your glass , Valentine—Valentine—you would have been doomed ! ” “ But , ” exclaimed the young girl , “ why am I thus pursued ? ” “ Why ? —are you so kind—so good—so unsuspicious of ill , that you can not understand , Valentine ? ” “ No , I have never injured her. ” “ But you are rich , Valentine ; you have 200,000 livres a year , and you prevent her son from enjoying these 200,000 livres. ” “ How so ?
“ But how can that be ?
But it seems to me that that which he is just now undergoing is hard enough. ” “ In any case , ” Aramis replied , “ the punishment should fall not on the king , but on his ministers ; for the first article of the constitution is , ‘ The king can do no wrong. ’ ” “ As for me , ” thought Porthos , giving Mordaunt his whole attention , “ were it not for breaking in on the majesty of the situation I would leap down from the bench , reach Mordaunt in three bounds and strangle him ; I would then take him by the feet and knock the life out of these wretched musketeers who parody the musketeers of France .
“ I don ’ t remember him. ” “ Groslow is the man who broke Parry ’ s head and is now getting ready to break ours. ” “ Oh !
“ Do you still wish to dispose of all ? ” “ Yes. ” “ But they will contest the will after your death ? ” “ No. ” “ My father knows me , ” replied Villefort ; “ he is quite sure that his wishes will be held sacred by me ; besides , he understands that in my position I can not plead against the poor. ” The eye of Noirtier beamed with triumph .
You say an exterminating angel appears to have devoted that house to God ’ s anger—well , who says your supposition is not reality ?
“ Yes , and that ’ s all settled ! ” exclaimed Caderousse , who , by a last effort of intellect , had followed the reading of the letter , and instinctively comprehended all the misery which such a denunciation must entail .
“ Yes , grandpapa , ” said Valentine ; “ it is so .
He had received in the chest the bullet of D ’ Artagnan ’ s first adversary .
Write to me at Paris , to M. Joannes , in the Palais Royal , arcade Pierre , No .
Oh , how distinctly I remember that kiss ! —it was the last he ever gave me , and I feel as if it were still warm on my forehead .
There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™ electronic works .
Once out to sea , you are too good a politician not to understand the rest , Mordaunt. ” “ Yes , they would have all been blown up. ” “ Just so .
As we have said , he was lying on the deck .
They passed to the third story ; it was the telegraph room .
“ The prisoner is there , ” replied Vampa , pointing to the hollow space in front of which the bandit was on guard , “ and I will go myself and tell him he is free. ” The chief went towards the place he had pointed out as Albert ’ s prison , and Franz and the count followed him .
You had dreamed that a ship had entered the harbor at Le Havre , that this ship brought news that a payment we had looked upon as lost was going to be made .
It appears that I had made a mistake , monsieur , that I had arrested the wrong person , and that he whom I ought to have arrested had escaped. ” “ But Athos ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , whose impatience was increased by the disregard of the authorities , “ Athos , where is he ? ” “ As I was anxious to repair the wrongs I had done the prisoner , ” resumed the innkeeper , “ I took my way straight to the cellar in order to set him at liberty .
“ Leave the saucepan , ” said Dantès ; “ you can take it away when you bring me my breakfast. ” This advice was to the jailer ’ s taste , as it spared him the necessity of making another trip .
The report of Spanish cruelty had gone out and every one was frightened .
Rochefort passed at a gallop .
“ You must go , then , mademoiselle , ” said Emmanuel .
and there are no doors by which you can escape this time but those of hell. ” “ Oh !
“ Eh !
Porthos scanned him from head to foot and smiled when he discovered that in spite of the blow he had administered to Parry ’ s brother , he was not nearly so strong as himself .
Should he find him at all ?
D ’ Artagnan , however , could only see enough to recognize the form of her vestments , not enough to distinguish her features .
The other three were occupied in opening an enormous flagon of Collicure wine ; these were the lackeys of these gentlemen .
What upset him completely was that the four friends seemed to have no acquaintance with one another .
Under pretense that he ’ s a king it appears he can not dress or undress without assistance. ” “ Really , captain , ” said D ’ Artagnan , determined to continue on the laudatory tack on which he had commenced , “ the more I listen to you the more surprised I am at the easy and elegant manner in which you speak French .
This letter is here , in this pocket , ” and he pointed to the pocket which contained the letter .
I tell you I am going to die—do you understand ?
Monsieur de Beaufort escaped ? ” “ My lord , I saw him run off from the top of the terrace. ” “ And you did not fire on him ? ” “ He was out of range. ” “ Monsieur de Chavigny—where was he ? ” “ Absent. ” “ And La Ramee ? ” “ Was found locked up in the prisoner ’ s room , a gag in his mouth and a poniard near him. ” “ But the man who was under him ? ” “ Was an accomplice of the duke ’ s and escaped along with him. ” Mazarin groaned .
“ One of the last , as you see ; if you hear anything of Monsieur Voiture , be so kind as to send me word to-morrow. ” “ Oh ! ” said Scarron , “ he may die now. ” “ Why ? ” asked the young girl with the velvet eyes .
“ Thank you , monseigneur , ” he said , drawing back ; “ I am paid. ” The duke went from one surprise to another .
But after all , ” resumed the abbess , “ Monsieur Cardinal has perhaps plausible motives for acting thus ; and though she has the look of an angel , we must not always judge people by the appearance. ” “ Good ! ” said Milady to herself ; “ who knows !
She lives ; she is in safety in a convent ; she is at Béthune !
Just at the moment when they were taking the dainty animal from the spit , they saw Edmond springing with the boldness of a chamois from rock to rock , and they fired the signal agreed upon .
As to Franz , he had no letter of credit , as he lived at Florence , and had only come to Rome to pass seven or eight days ; he had brought but a hundred louis , and of these he had not more than fifty left .
Was it not by chance the Count of Monte Cristo bought that house ?
As Porthos and Aramis were undressing him , in the hope of finding his wound not mortal , a large purse dropped from his clothes .
PLAN OF CAMPAIGN D ’ Artagnan went straight to M. de Tréville ’ s .
“ Crown pieces only—silver pieces !
He planted his torch in the ground and resumed his labor .
At ten o ’ clock , the king ’ s collation , consisting of preserves and other delicacies , was prepared in the little room on the side of the church of St. Jean , in front of the silver buffet of the city , which was guarded by four archers .
At this moment Planchet brought out Athos ’ s horse ; the Musketeer leaped lightly into the saddle .
“ To do justice to them who had condemned me , they kept their word .
Oh , spare me ! ” “ That the symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances are the same. ” M. de Villefort started from his seat , then in a moment fell down again , silent and motionless .
Bazin was then at the height of joy .
how lofty , how magnificent Monsieur Athos was that day , when he said to his adversary : ‘ You have insisted on knowing my name , sir ; so much the worse for you , since I shall be obliged to kill you. ’ I was near him , those were his exact words , when he stabbed his foe as he said he would , and his adversary fell without saying , ‘ Oh ! ’ ’ Tis a noble gentleman—Monsieur Athos. ” “ Yes , true as Gospel , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but one single fault has swallowed up all these fine qualities. ” “ I remember well , ” said Planchet , “ he was fond of drinking—in truth , he drank , but not as other men drink .
Will you take me away with you ?
The next day , on awaking , the count perceived Raoul by his bedside .
“ Ah , may you be a true prophet ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , laughing .
was born .
And moreover , in taking such a step we should appear to be doubtful of ourselves .
He used to weep , he now laughs ; he grew thin , he now grows fat .
You know it is you alone whom I love. ” “ How can I know that ? ” “ By the scorn I will throw upon her. ” D ’ Artagnan took a pen and wrote : MADAME , Until the present moment I could not believe that it was to me your first two letters were addressed , so unworthy did I feel myself of such an honor ; besides , I was so seriously indisposed that I could not in any case have replied to them .
These two ingredients are mixed in equal proportions , and formed into pills .
At the same time the door opened ; a man appeared on the threshold .
“ Touch nothing , my little friend , ” cried the count eagerly ; “ some of those liquids are not only dangerous to taste , but even to inhale. ” Madame de Villefort became very pale , and , seizing her son ’ s arm , drew him anxiously toward her ; but , once satisfied of his safety , she also cast a brief but expressive glance on the casket , which was not lost upon the count .
Morrel had indeed placed a cross over the spot , but it had fallen down and the grave-digger had burnt it , as he did all the old wood in the churchyard .
As to the goldsmith , he wrote to his wife , sending her the order for the thousand pistoles , and charging her to send him , in exchange , his most skillful apprentice , an assortment of diamonds , of which he gave the names and the weight , and the necessary tools .
The timely Arrival of D ’ Artagnan in Paris .
An unexpected occurrence forces me to ask my wife to have a little conversation with me ; it is so rarely I make such a request , I am sure you can not grudge it to me. ” Debray muttered something , bowed and went out , knocking himself against the edge of the door , like Nathan in _Athalie_ .
Porthos linked his arm in that of his friend .
But in fifteen days , as you know , or as you do not know , this fatal campaign is to open .
“ I could not tell you before others , ” said he in a low tone , “ the reason of my parting with the horses ; but a most enormous price was offered me this morning for them .
Caderousse , scarcely yet relying on this promise , put his legs out of the window and stood on the ladder .
If they are arrested they will only be put in the Bastile ; if we are arrested it is a matter of the Place de Greve. ” “ Oh !
’ Tis well .
“ What ? ” said Villefort , “ do you mean to say that Valentine is not interested in your will ? ” “ No. ” “ Sir , ” said the notary , whose interest had been greatly excited , and who had resolved on publishing far and wide the account of this extraordinary and picturesque scene , “ what appeared so impossible to me an hour ago , has now become quite easy and practicable , and this may be a perfectly valid will , provided it be read in the presence of seven witnesses , approved by the testator , and sealed by the notary in the presence of the witnesses .
Retire within , Bertuccio , and tranquillize your mind .
“ Go , then , my friends , ” said the former , sighing .
Besides , be assured , my dear Edmond , the dungeon I am about to leave will not long remain empty ; some other unfortunate being will soon take my place , and to him you will appear like an angel of salvation .
“ You are the notary empowered to sell the country house that I wish to purchase , monsieur ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
50095m “ I rave ? ” said Morrel ; “ well , then , I appeal to M. d ’ Avrigny himself .
The islands of Tiboulen and Lemaire are a league from the Château d ’ If ; Dantès , nevertheless , determined to make for them .
Bonacieux , darting at her the most loving glance that he could possibly concentrate upon her charming little person ; and while he descended the stairs , he heard the door closed and double-locked .
“ The young man who one evening sought a quarrel with him on the Pont Neuf , opposite the Samaritaine. ” “ A singular introduction ! ” “ You will find that it is as good as another. ” Patrick galloped off , reached the duke , and announced to him in the terms directed that a messenger awaited him .
A woman lay on the ground , her head resting on the knees of a man , who was seated by her ; as he raised his head , the woman ’ s face became visible .
Ah !
D ’ Artagnan was a woman , and still more , a mother .
But how did this horse come into your hands , Mousqueton ? ” “ Pray , ” said the lackey , “ say nothing about it , monsieur ; it is a frightful trick of the husband of our duchess ! ” “ How is that , Mousqueton ? ” “ Why , we are looked upon with a rather favorable eye by a lady of quality , the Duchesse de—but , your pardon ; my master has commanded me to be discreet .
He put in his pocket the key of the room where he had hidden them , and accompanied by Porthos returned to settle with Mousqueton , who , naively , and like the worthy steward that he was , handed them four hundred and thirty louis and kept one hundred for himself .
“ But , ” resumed La Ramee , “ that is only a way of corresponding. ” “ And that is a great deal , it seems to me. ” “ But not enough. ” “ Pardon me ; for instance , I say to my friends , Be on a certain day , on a certain hour , at the other side of the moat with two horses. ” “ Well , what then ? ” La Ramee began to be uneasy ; “ unless the horses have wings to mount the ramparts and come and fetch you. ” “ That ’ s not needed .
Neither could give the others any information , for all were ignorant who this man could be ; nevertheless , they felt convinced that all was as it should be , as it was done by the order of Athos .
Those were good old days ; never fear—these people owe us no grudge. ” “ Is your honor sure ? ” “ I can answer for it they do not. ” “ Well , we won ’ t speak of it any more , then ; ” and Planchet took his place in D ’ Artagnan ’ s suite with that sublime confidence he had always had in his master , which even fifteen years of separation had not destroyed .
There is no gainsaying the fact that a very unfavorable construction would have been put upon the circumstance if the two women had gone without escort , while the addition of a third , in the person of her mother ’ s admitted lover , enabled Mademoiselle Danglars to defy malice and ill-nature .
Do not forget for a single instant that we are watching over your safety ; observe the smallest gesture , the least bit of song , the least sign from any one near you ; watch everything , hear everything , interpret everything. ” “ Oh , chevalier ! ” cried the king , “ what can I say to you ?
“ I was reflecting , in the first place , ” replied Dantès , “ upon the enormous degree of intelligence and ability you must have employed to reach the high perfection to which you have attained .
I have one or two visits to make and a letter yet to write .
Then , with his knife , he began to carve all sorts of objects in wood ; it was thus that Pinelli , the famous sculptor , had commenced .
ha ! ” answered Porthos , “ behold , other players appear. ” And in fact , two other cavaliers made their appearance , detached , as it seemed , from the principal group ; they again disputed the road .
“ You notice my ring ? ” said the Gascon , proud to display so rich a gift in the eyes of his friends .
“ I am on the point of starting on a journey , ” replied Morrel disdainfully .
I will make the journey on purpose to see him , if it is worth while. ’ “ At this moment there was a tremendous clap of thunder , accompanied by a flash of lightning so vivid , that it quite eclipsed the light of the lamp .
He turned .
“ Alas , my friends , ” replied M. Morrel , with a mournful shake of his head , “ the thing has assumed a more serious aspect than I expected. ” “ Oh , indeed—indeed , sir , he is innocent ! ” sobbed forth Mercédès .
And I say to you : one drop of water suffices to make the full vase overflow ; one slight fault may draw down punishment upon the head spared , despite many crimes. ” “ Mr .
Ah , I confess , your excellency , when I saw this poor creature sleeping peacefully in its cradle , I felt my eyes filled with tears .
On perceiving Mazarin he bowed .
The breakfast-room was finished in oak ; the salon in mahogany , and the furnishings were of blue velvet ; the bedroom was in citronwood and green damask .
At length he found himself at the foot of a staircase , and he mechanically lifted his foot five or six times .
This letter is not in your table nor in your secretary ; and yet this letter must be somewhere. ” “ Would you dare to lift your hand to your queen ? ” said Anne of Austria , drawing herself up to her full height , and fixing her eyes upon the chancellor with an expression almost threatening .
returned , the influence of M. de Saint-Méran , like his own , could be vastly increased , and the marriage be still more suitable .
I have two things to postpone. ” “ And what are they ? ” “ First , a thrust with the coadjutor , whom I met last night at Madame de Rambouillet ’ s and whom I found particular in his remarks respecting me. ” “ Oh , fie—a quarrel between priests , a duel between allies ! ” “ What can I do , friend ?
Desirous of seeing how far the discretion of the good abbess would go , she began to tell a story , obscure at first , but very circumstantial afterward , about the cardinal , relating the amours of the minister with Mme .
hi ! ” cried the steward ; “ the house servants , with the carbines ! ” “ On !
“ Well , marquis , ” said Monte Cristo , “ you appear to be in no way disappointed in the son whom your good fortune has restored to you. ” “ Ah , your excellency , I am overwhelmed with delight. ” “ And what are your feelings ? ” said Monte Cristo , turning to the young man .
wanted a discussion from which some light or other might break , convinced as he was that the cardinal had some afterthought and was preparing for him one of those terrible surprises which his Eminence was so skillful in getting up .
The Vendetta Chapter 45 .
“ Be it so , ” said Athos ; “ yet it is probable , on the contrary , that we shall enter , because we seem to have to do with sensible people .
“ I speak to you in French , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ be kind enough , then , to reply to me in the same language .
“ Sire , I thought his name was unknown to your majesty. ” “ No , no , Blacas ; he is a man of strong and elevated understanding , ambitious , too , and , _pardieu ! _ you know his father ’ s name ! ” “ His father ? ” “ Yes , Noirtier. ” “ Noirtier the Girondin ? —Noirtier the senator ? ” “ He himself. ” “ And your majesty has employed the son of such a man ? ” “ Blacas , my friend , you have but limited comprehension .
“ Yes ; do you not know that this is a young man whom the count is introducing ? ” said Morcerf .
Some fragments of past splendor appeared here and there upon the walls of this modest lodging ; a sword , for example , richly embossed , which belonged by its make to the times of Francis I , the hilt of which alone , encrusted with precious stones , might be worth two hundred pistoles , and which , nevertheless , in his moments of greatest distress Athos had never pledged or offered for sale .
We are not such devils as we appear to be .
It is a rock of almost conical form , which looks as though it had been thrust up by volcanic force from the depth to the surface of the ocean .
If you drag us both before a tribunal I will still say , ‘ No , my daughter is not guilty ; —there is no crime in my house .
“ Look ! ” he said .
Everything was here arranged in perfect order ; each register had its number , each file of papers its place .
“ Yes , sir. ” “ By whom ? ” inquired Cromwell .
Bonacieux had also reflected ; but , it must be admitted , upon something widely different from ambition .
He entered Portsmouth about eight o ’ clock in the morning .
“ Exactly so ; a carriage was waiting at the end of the Via Macello .
The cause which the young man espoused was one so sacred that Beauchamp had only to comply with all his wishes ; he yielded and contented himself with following Morcerf .
She is perhaps a prisoner ; she is perhaps dead ! ” “ Yes , but you have at least this consolation , that you can say to yourself she has not quit you voluntarily , that if you learn no news of her , it is because all communication with you is interdicted ; while I— ” “ Well ? ” “ Nothing , ” replied Aramis , “ nothing. ” “ So you renounce the world , then , forever ; that is a settled thing—a resolution registered ! ” “ Forever !
He mounted the skirting stone that his eyes might look over the curtain .
It was there Wilmore had first met him and fought against him ; and in that war Zaccone had been taken prisoner , sent to England , and consigned to the hulks , whence he had escaped by swimming .
“ _Tenacem propositi virum_ .
The attention which we have been obliged to give , during the commencement of the chapter , to the illustrious personages we have introduced into it , has diverted us for an instant from him to whom Anne of Austria owed the extraordinary triumph she had obtained over the cardinal ; and who , confounded , unknown , lost in the crowd gathered at one of the doors , looked on at this scene , comprehensible only to four persons—the king , the queen , his Eminence , and himself .
The Story VOLUME TWO Chapter 28 .
When I call you ‘ chevalier , ’ it is in presenting you to my guests , that they may know who you are .
Anne questioned D ’ Artagnan by a look .
thou man of noble heart ; woe is me !
As long as the procurator ’ s wife could follow him with her eyes , she waved her handkerchief to him , leaning so far out of the window as to lead people to believe she wished to precipitate herself .
Franz fell powerless on a chair ; Villefort opened the door and escaped , for the idea had entered his mind to stifle the little remaining life in the heart of this terrible old man .
You know the same thing was done for Saint Stephen of Florence , Saint George Constantinian of Parma , and even for the Order of Malta .
Perhaps my heart was weaker than the hearts of most men , and I suffered more than they would have done in my place ; that is all. ” The countess stopped for a moment , as if gasping for breath .
“ Yes , ” said the old man .
Imitate me .
I wish , in order to honor our worthy aldermen , you should appear in ceremonial costume , and above all , ornamented with the diamond studs which I gave you on your birthday .
“ And now , sir , ” resumed Mousqueton , when he had rid himself of Planchet , who had in vain tried to clasp his hands behind his friend ’ s fat back , “ now , sir , allow me to leave you , for I could not permit my master to hear of your arrival from any but myself ; he would never forgive me for not having preceded you. ” “ This dear friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , carefully avoiding to utter either the former name borne by Porthos or his new one , “ then he has not forgotten me ? ” “ Forgotten—he ! ” cried Mousqueton ; “ there ’ s not a day , sir , that we don ’ t expect to hear that you were made marshal either instead of Monsieur de Gassion , or of Monsieur de Bassompierre. ” On D ’ Artagnan ’ s lips there played one of those rare and melancholy smiles which seemed to emanate from the depth of his soul—the last trace of youth and happiness that had survived life ’ s disillusions .
Franz himself , however , saw his way more plainly in proportion as he went on towards the light , which served in some manner as a guide .
“ _Certes_ , ” said Aramis , “ I do justice to the beauties of this thesis ; but at the same time I perceive it would be overwhelming for me .
“ And what did he say , or rather do ? ” Ali placed himself in the light , so that his master might see him distinctly , and then imitating in his intelligent manner the countenance of the old man , he closed his eyes , as Noirtier was in the custom of doing when saying “ Yes. ” “ Good ; he accepts , ” said Monte Cristo .
Then , without taking his eyes from the object which had first attracted his attention , he asked for his telescope .
“ The jeweller , meanwhile , was humming a song as he stood warming his back at the fire La Carconte had kindled to dry the wet garments of her guest ; and this done , she next occupied herself in arranging his supper , by spreading a napkin at the end of the table , and placing on it the slender remains of their dinner , to which she added three or four fresh-laid eggs .
As for my disposition , that is , perhaps , somewhat too hasty ; but I have striven to repress it .
Albert , then , had fallen into the hands of the famous bandit chief , in whose existence he had for so long a time refused to believe .
Ah , maternal love is a great virtue , a powerful motive—so powerful that it excuses a multitude of things , even if , after Duncan ’ s death , Lady Macbeth had been at all pricked by her conscience. ” Madame de Villefort listened with avidity to these appalling maxims and horrible paradoxes , delivered by the count with that ironical simplicity which was peculiar to him .
a brute , that cardinal .
Coquenard .
But the meeting was nearly concluded when the name of his visitor was announced .
“ At length I saw the lamp rise softly , and disappear in the depths of the ceiling ; my chamber was filled with darkness and obscurity , but I made a strong effort to penetrate this darkness and obscurity .
Assuming a dignified air , she turned round to Debray , without answering her husband .
You see , then , Morrel , that he was a more unhappy lover than you. ” “ And has he found consolation ? ” “ He has at least found peace. ” “ And does he ever expect to be happy ? ” “ He hopes so , Maximilian. ” The young man ’ s head fell on his breast .
20355m Scarcely had the first congratulations upon her marvellous escape been gone through when she wrote the following letter to Madame Danglars : — “ Dear Hermine , —I have just had a wonderful escape from the most imminent danger , and I owe my safety to the very Count of Monte Cristo we were talking about yesterday , but whom I little expected to see today .
On his part the king returned to his apartment .
“ Of course not ! ” rejoined Caderousse quickly ; “ no more do I , and that was what I was observing to this gentleman just now .
The man carried me to the foundling asylum , where I was registered under the number 37 .
D ’ Artagnan had just passed the Rue Cassette , and already perceived the door of his friend ’ s house , shaded by a mass of sycamores and clematis which formed a vast arch opposite the front of it , when he perceived something like a shadow issuing from the Rue Servandoni .
He went on guard because he always kept company with whoever of his friends was on duty .
After a few minutes of silent embarrassment , Athos spoke .
“ Do you see that ? ” said the king .
“ Not a step further , ” said the man , who appeared to be the captain , “ or I will hamstring your horses. ” “ Peste ! ” said Porthos , “ it would be a pity ; animals which cost me a hundred pistoles each. ” “ I will pay you two hundred for them , ” said Mazarin .
The fortune is not her gift , but is inherited from my relations. ” “ Certainly ; and that is why M. and Madame de Saint-Méran have died ; that is why M. Noirtier was sentenced the day he made you his heir ; that is why you , in your turn , are to die—it is because your father would inherit your property , and your brother , his only son , succeed to his. ” “ Edward ?
She knew she had only two days left ; that when once the order was signed by Buckingham—and Buckingham would sign it the more readily from its bearing a false name , and he could not , therefore , recognize the woman in question—once this order was signed , we say , the baron would make her embark immediately , and she knew very well that women condemned to exile employ arms much less powerful in their seductions than the pretendedly virtuous woman whose beauty is lighted by the sun of the world , whose style the voice of fashion lauds , and whom a halo of aristocracy gilds with enchanting splendors .
Laporte entered .
Thank God , my child was not then dead ! ” “ No , it was not dead. ” “ And you can tell me so without fearing to make me die of joy ?
Do you think he would recollect you ? ” “ My faith , monsieur , he was in such trouble that I doubt if he can have retained a very clear recollection of me. ” “ Well , go and talk with the boy , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and make out if you can from his conversation whether his master is dead. ” Planchet dismounted and went straight up to Lubin , who did not at all remember him , and the two lackeys began to chat with the best understanding possible ; while D ’ Artagnan turned the two horses into a lane , went round the house , and came back to watch the conference from behind a hedge of filberts .
Meanwhile , it was necessary at all hazards , in order to gain time , to put some obstacle in the way of the execution on the following day—the day appointed by the judges .
She also recollected the furious and imprudent attack she had made upon D ’ Artagnan when he spared the life of her brother .
A lady , it was said , had just fainted ; they had supplied her with a smelling-bottle , and she had recovered .
“ We are betrayed , ” said the king in a low voice .
This was all that M. de Tréville wanted .
I was at the end of my journey and of my credit .
“ Oh , yes ; oh , yes , I do indeed repent. ” And he struck his breast with his emaciated fist .
“ What is the matter , Maximilian ? ” asked he ; “ you are pale , and the perspiration rolls from your forehead. ” Morrel fell into a chair .
The return to La Rochelle , therefore , was profoundly dull .
M. de Monte Cristo may have heard it , and to enlighten himself—— “ But why should he wish to enlighten himself upon the subject ? ” asked Villefort , after a moment ’ s reflection , “ what interest can this M. de Monte Cristo or M. Zaccone , —son of a shipowner of Malta , discoverer of a mine in Thessaly , now visiting Paris for the first time , —what interest , I say , can he take in discovering a gloomy , mysterious , and useless fact like this ?
Request him to come here directly .
it was this gentleman ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , bowing to the officer .
“ You are always right , ” said the music teacher , seating herself by the side of her friend .
We will send the carriage to wait for us on the Piazza del Popolo , by the Via del Babuino , for I shall be glad to pass , myself , through the Corso , to see if some orders I have given have been executed. ” “ Excellency , ” said a servant , opening the door , “ a man in the dress of a penitent wishes to speak to you. ” “ Ah !
no , ” said Bonacieux , “ but yesterday I went to St. Mandé to make some inquiries after a servant , as I can not possibly do without one ; and the roads were so bad that I brought back all this mud , which I have not yet had time to remove. ” The place named by Bonacieux as that which had been the object of his journey was a fresh proof in support of the suspicions D ’ Artagnan had conceived .
The noble and pure voice of my husband was no longer here to defend me .
The usher who had introduced me was waiting for me at the door , and he conducted me through the corridors to a private entrance opening into the Rue de Vaugirard .
“ Then the postscript—— ” “ Well ; what of the postscript ? ” “ Then the postscript is as favorably received by you as the rest of the letter ? ” “ Certainly ; the Abbé Busoni and myself have a small account open between us .
and then must not all be over ?
“ Well , ” said the patron , “ let what may happen , it shall never be said that we deserted a good comrade like you .
I have a post by which I live ; at the death of Monsieur de Tréville , who is old , I may be a captain , which is a very snug berth for a once penniless Gascon .
“ And what do you reckon your outfit will cost ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
So I shall never be a great man , as he was , but to compensate for that , I shall be a good man , Monsieur de Rochefort , and I hope to prove it to you. ” Rochefort knew well the tones of that soft voice , in which sounded sometimes a sort of gentle lisp , like the hissing of young vipers .
M. de Villefort went to the door , which he closed behind the child , and bolted .
Monsieur de Richelieu would have said , ‘ Five hundred crowns for the councillor. ’ Well , let ’ s say no more about it .
“ Half-past twelve , ” he said .
No one would listen or believe me , because everyone thought me mad ; but you , who must know that I am not , listen to me , and believe me so afterwards if you will. ” “ Alas , ” murmured Edmond to himself , “ this is a terrible relapse !
Presently the door opened , and she perceived Felton .
I have nothing to say that can not be said before all. ” Juxon sat down , and the king , kneeling humbly before him , began his confession .
He was engaged in an adventure so singular that he wished for counsel .
The couple , then , although they had not seen each other for eight days , and during that time serious events had taken place in which both were concerned , accosted each other with a degree of preoccupation .
He waited for a fresh gesture on the part of his superior , for fear he might be mistaken ; but this gesture being repeated , he left the ranks , and advanced to receive orders .
To the committee the adventure was so extraordinary and curious , that the interest they had felt for the count ’ s safety became now quite a secondary matter .
“ We were to have conveyed her to a hôtel in the Place Royale , ” said the wounded man .
There was something mournful , solemn , and terrible in the count ’ s manner .
I am an assassin , then , and not an officer of justice ! ” and he closed his eyes with a groan .
“ Yes , I was thinking whether we ought to come armed or not. ” “ Armed to the teeth ! ” replied Mazarin .
Arrested at Compiegne , they have been carried to Rueil ; at Rueil they have been questioned by the cardinal , who has either kept them near him or sent them to Saint Germain .
ESCAPE Chapter LIX .
This league was directed against France .
“ Now , madame , ” said Debray , “ you have a splendid fortune , an income of about 60,000 livres a year , which is enormous for a woman who can not keep an establishment here for a year , at least .
Besides , it came into the young man ’ s mind that by remaining in the environs of the spot on which this sad event had passed , he would , perhaps , have some light thrown upon the mysterious affair .
A slight click of the tongue against his teeth informed Athos of the Gascon ’ s uneasiness .
When this speech was arranged , Villefort turned to Dantès .
“ I have that honor , your excellency. ” “ You had a new livery yesterday ? ” “ Yes , sir. ” “ I have an engagement with a pretty little girl for this evening , and do not wish to be known ; lend me your livery till tomorrow .
Besides , we must try our own arms. ” “ Bah , let us enjoy that pleasure , ” said Aramis , with his mild and careless manner .
You will kill yourself , ” cried Planchet .
The title attracted me ; I took them home with me , with the permission of the guardian , and devoured them .
The nephew replied no ; perfectly comprehending the meaning of the question .
The beautiful Catalane and noble countess had lost both her proud glance and charming smile , because she saw nothing but misery around her ; the walls were hung with one of the gray papers which economical landlords choose as not likely to show the dirt ; the floor was uncarpeted ; the furniture attracted the attention to the poor attempt at luxury ; indeed , everything offended eyes accustomed to refinement and elegance .
She would have questioned him as he passed by her , but the worthy creature hastened down the staircase with unusual precipitation , and only raised his hands to heaven and exclaimed : “ Oh , mademoiselle , mademoiselle , what a dreadful misfortune !
“ No , ” replied the turnkey ; “ you destroy everything .
I accelerate your ruin ?
Surely the diamond was as large as a nut to be worth all that. ” “ No , ” replied the abbé , “ it was not of such a size as that ; but you shall judge for yourself .
The Palikares had remained on the shore of the lake , ready to cover our retreat ; they were kneeling on the lowest of the marble steps , and in that manner intended making a rampart of the three others , in case of pursuit .
The morning dawned dull and gloomy , and Villefort saw the dim gray light shine upon the lines he had traced in red ink .
They were very happy .
“ It happens well that we are going there this evening , ” said Athos to the vicomte ; “ we will pay our compliments to that poor man. ” “ What , then , is this Monsieur Scarron , who thus puts all Paris in commotion ?
the friend of my greatest foes ?
Call for help ! ” “ Useless ! ” said Athos , “ useless !
Chapter XXXI .
God pardon me ! ” cried Buckingham , “ I really think he threatens me ! ” “ No , my Lord , I still plead .
But there , as he was alighting from his horse at the gate of the Jolly Miller , without anyone—host , waiter , or hostler—coming to hold his stirrup or take his horse , D ’ Artagnan spied , though an open window on the ground floor , a gentleman , well-made and of good carriage , although of rather a stern countenance , talking with two persons who appeared to listen to him with respect .
He felt himself doubly betrayed , by his friend and by her whom he already loved like a mistress .
He grew deadly pale , placed his hand upon his heart , which was breaking , and at once perceived all the treachery .
He then began to visit his friends of both sexes , in that strange costume .
I am about , perhaps , to discover something here ; I am in the vein. ” She tried to give her countenance an appearance of perfect candor .
Their appearance , although it was not quite at ease , excited by its carelessness , at once full of dignity and submission , the admiration of D ’ Artagnan , who beheld in these two men demigods , and in their leader an Olympian Jupiter , armed with all his thunders .
It seems that he came to himself and that he will continue to be an annoyance. ” “ See that , now ! ” said Porthos ; “ and I turned my horse aside from going plump on to him !
“ If only we two arrive , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it will be enough , since the duke ’ s troop are only four in number. ” “ That is true , ” said Porthos And he spurred his courser on .
Men were giants in those times , ” said Athos ; “ now we are pigmies in comparison .
Can you recollect all that ? ” “ Perfectly , madame. ” “ Come at dinnertime. ” “ Very well. ” “ And be upon your guard before my husband , who is rather shrewd , notwithstanding his seventy-six years. ” “ Seventy-six years !
But you—is there nothing that you want ? ” “ We came here with the intention of asking for something to eat. ” “ Alas , they have taken everything ; there isn ’ t a morsel of bread in the house. ” “ You hear , D ’ Artagnan ? ” said Athos ; “ we shall have to look elsewhere for our dinner. ” “ It is all one to me now , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I am no longer hungry. ” “ Faith !
Bonacieux , and dwelt for an instant on the lips of D ’ Artagnan .
The clerks surveyed him with great curiosity , and he , not knowing well what to say to this ascending and descending scale , remained tongue-tied .
In the ray of light which entered by the narrow window of his cell , he held open in his left hand , of which alone , it will be recollected , he retained the use , a sheet of paper , which , from being constantly rolled into a small compass , had the form of a cylinder , and was not easily kept open .
Her forehead almost touched the carpet , when the count sprang forward and raised her .
“ Dear grandpapa , ” cried she , “ what has happened ?
You would meet the queen , and she would not know who you are ? ” “ No ; but thanks to this diamond , ” replied the young man .
As to D ’ Artagnan , who as yet knew nobody in the capital , he only found one chocolate breakfast at the house of a priest of his own province , and one dinner at the house of a cornet of the Guards .
For forty years , he produced and distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support .
Now then , tell me , was any person present during your last conversation with Captain Leclere ? ” “ No ; we were quite alone. ” “ Could your conversation have been overheard by anyone ? ” “ It might , for the cabin door was open—and—stay ; now I recollect , —Danglars himself passed by just as Captain Leclere was giving me the packet for the grand marshal. ” “ That ’ s better , ” cried the abbé ; “ now we are on the right scent .
THE RENDEZVOUS D ’ Artagnan ran home immediately , and although it was three o ’ clock in the morning and he had some of the worst quarters of Paris to traverse , he met with no misadventure .
“ Oh , pardon me , pardon me ! ” cried she , sinking upon the shoulders of Milady .
Danglars was engaged at that moment , presiding over a railroad committee .
Then she threw herself upon her knees , and began to pray .
The jailer brought him his breakfast .
Edmond welcomed the meeting with this fellow—who had been one of his own sailors—as a sure means of testing the extent of the change which time had worked in his own appearance .
You will take your place in the _coupé_ to Châlons .
20335m “ I have the honor , I presume , of addressing M. de Monte Cristo. ” The count bowed .
Mme .
what fine things we would do together ! ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos . )
I come to say that today , and for the remainder of the Carnival , I leave the carriage entirely at your disposal .
Villefort looked at her with that piercing glance which reads the secrets of the heart .
Had that letter fallen into the hands of another , you , my dear father , would probably ere this have been shot. ” Villefort ’ s father laughed .
“ Stop a minute , ” answered Caderousse ; “ we might be interrupted in the most interesting part of my story , which would be a pity ; and it is as well that your visit hither should be made known only to ourselves. ” With these words he went stealthily to the door , which he closed , and , by way of still greater precaution , bolted and barred it , as he was accustomed to do at night .
“ The only time I have worn these studs was at a ball given by the king eight days ago at Windsor .
Noirtier uttered a kind of hoarse , rattling sound ; the old man ’ s eyes sparkled , and the good doctor understood that he wished to behold his child .
It is only by comparing the pains of actual being with the joys of the assumed existence , that you would desire to live no longer , but to dream thus forever .
Renée regarded him with fond affection ; and certainly his handsome features , lit up as they then were with more than usual fire and animation , seemed formed to excite the innocent admiration with which she gazed on her graceful and intelligent lover .
“ Mousqueton , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ let us be off !
Some Highlanders were listlessly keeping watch .
“ MARIE MICHON ” “ And what dream does she mean ? ” asked the dragoon , who had approached during the reading .
400340m “ ‘ A note was in consequence addressed to General de Quesnel , begging him to be present at the meeting next day , the 5th .
At the end of a quarter of an hour , however , surprised at the length of the journey , she leaned forward toward the door to see whither she was being conducted .
This oath was no longer a vain menace ; for the fastest sailor in the Mediterranean would have been unable to overtake the little tartan , that with every stitch of canvas set was flying before the wind to Leghorn .
How much were your animals worth , Porthos ? ” “ Ah , if poor Mousqueton were here he could tell you to a fraction. ” “ No matter ; you can tell within ten crowns. ” “ Why , Vulcan and Bayard cost me each about two hundred pistoles , and putting Phoebus at a hundred and fifty , we should be pretty near the amount. ” “ There will remain , then , four hundred and fifty pistoles , ” said D ’ Artagnan , contentedly .
The house to which D ’ Artagnan and Porthos conducted Athos and Aramis was the one assigned to them by General Cromwell and of which they had taken possession on the previous evening .
Bonacieux ; that the young woman had made an appointment with him before the pavilion , and not in the pavilion ; that she might have been detained in Paris by her duties , or perhaps by the jealousy of her husband .
“ Monsieur de Tréville awaits Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” cried a servant , throwing open the door of the cabinet .
“ Something better still , Mouston. ” “ An expedition , sir ? ” asked the steward , whose roses began to change into lilies .
It rests between his conscience and his God. ” “ But if your honor knew this man ? ” “ I neither know nor wish to know him .
“ You think then , as I do , that she deceives me ? ” said the king .
my dear Aramis , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ if these are the prunes that are sent to you from Tours , I beg you will make my compliments to the gardener who gathers them. ” “ You are mistaken , friend D ’ Artagnan , ” said Aramis , always on his guard ; “ this is from my publisher , who has just sent me the price of that poem in one-syllable verse which I began yonder. ” “ Ah , indeed , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Now , ” said he , “ I ’ m off to the bishop ’ s .
50239m Ten minutes afterwards the baron entered his apartment , and Peppino stationed himself on the bench outside the door of the hotel , after having whispered something in the ear of one of the descendants of Marius and the Gracchi whom we noticed at the beginning of the chapter , who immediately ran down the road leading to the Capitol at his fullest speed .
Well , at a few minutes to seven—— ” “ At a few minutes to seven ? ” cried La Ramee , cold sweat upon his brow .
Very well .
He placed his hand on his dagger and stopped .
“ And thus they parted the best possible friends , and M. de Morcerf even wished to take him to the Chamber to hear the speakers. ” The countess made no reply .
I am only a lieutenant of musketeers , very poor , and journeys cost money .
_Certes_ , if the knife had been left in her power , she would now have thought , not of killing herself , but of killing the baron .
“ Don ’ t disturb yourself , Julie , ” said he .
You are mistaken ; it is Olivain who leaves me ; you are to remain. ” “ On the contrary , Olivain is to stay and I am to go .
But the words you have just spoken , the hope you have almost given me , will have richly paid all—were it my life. ” “ Oh , but I , ” said Anne , “ I also , duke , have had presentiments ; I also have had dreams .
M. Danglars , surrounded by deputies and men connected with the revenue , was explaining a new theory of taxation which he intended to adopt when the course of events had compelled the government to call him into the ministry .
“ What do you mean to say ?
“ I think nothing , my friend ; but all things are possible .
“ Yes , ” said Grimaud , with his hair standing on end .
You make me young and happy again by it .
He struggled against his thirst till his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth ; then , no longer able to resist , he called out .
Athos was looking on attentively , when some one touched him softly on the shoulder .
Where is your master ? ” “ You , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” cried Grimaud , “ impossible. ” “ Grimaud , ” said Athos , coming out of his apartment in a dressing gown , “ Grimaud , I thought I heard you permitting yourself to speak ? ” “ Ah , monsieur , it is— ” “ Silence ! ” Grimaud contented himself with pointing D ’ Artagnan out to his master with his finger .
These steps came on , came fast .
No , no , ” continued the count , “ had I to avenge myself , it is not thus I would take revenge. ” “ Then you disapprove of duelling ?
At the end of an hour , he heard a faint noise , which increased .
God doubtless neither heard nor saw me , and I sank upon the floor a prey to a slumber which resembled death .
It is you who have come to me .
This was the first time Morrel had ever so spoken , but he said it in a tone of paternal kindness , and Julie did not dare to disobey .
When they arrived Grimaud went carelessly and sat down by a loophole in the wall , letting his legs dangle outside .
We will wait for these gentlemen , so please you ; I have plenty of time , and it will be more correct .
Immediately the wits of the court plunged into satire .
“ Olivain , we have come into possession of two horses , but I have lost my own .
“ Yes , madame , ” replied the magistrate .
Beauchamp related to the young man all the facts we have just narrated ; his story , however , had over ours all the advantage of the animation of living things over the coldness of dead things .
She was pale , and looked fatigued , either from tears or want of sleep .
“ Nay , if your excellency is satisfied , it is all that I could wish .
“ You may go and offer your adieux and mine to Madame de Saint-Remy .
I heard it said that he was marching to the frontier to join the king. ” “ Yes , madame ; but on the frontier he was met by Lesly ; he had tried victory by means of superhuman undertakings .
“ I saw her. ” “ And you know who she is ? ” “ I believe I can guess , at least. ” “ Listen ! ” said Aramis .
To-night we stop at Derby ; and if there is a bottle of wine in the town let Mousqueton buy it .
“ Decidedly , Aramis , ” said Athos , “ I think I was wrong not to let you fire. ” “ Hold your tongue , ” replied Aramis ; “ you would make me weep , if such a thing were possible. ” At this moment they were hailed by a voice from the sloop and a few seconds later men , servants and baggage were aboard .
I have been so overwhelmed by the many storms that have broken over my head , that I am become passive in the hands of the Almighty , like a sparrow in the talons of an eagle .
Felton was a Puritan ; he abandoned the hand of this woman to kiss her feet .
In the first place , I was four years making the tools I possess , and have been two years scraping and digging out earth , hard as granite itself ; then what toil and fatigue has it not been to remove huge stones I should once have deemed impossible to loosen .
He had picked up every crumb that had been left from his former meals , and was beginning to eat the matting which covered the floor of his cell .
“ He has ; he is an abbé. ” “ Ah , what a misfortune ! ” exclaimed the duchess , playing carelessly with her fan .
My clothes were near me on a chair ; I neither remembered having undressed myself nor going to bed .
Depend on my care to see that your youth is not blighted , or suffered to pass away in ungenial solitude ; and of this be well assured , that if you love me as a father , I love you as a child. ” “ You are wrong , my lord .
Five days after your departure , he came back , and in a very bad condition , too .
Rochefort called him his friend , his dear Bonacieux , and never ceased telling him that the cardinal had a great respect for him .
28 , Rue de la Fontaine .
At the same instant his ear caught a sort of indistinct sound on the stairs , followed by the measured tread of soldiery , with the clanking of swords and military accoutrements ; then came a hum and buzz as of many voices , so as to deaden even the noisy mirth of the bridal party , among whom a vague feeling of curiosity and apprehension quelled every disposition to talk , and almost instantaneously the most deathlike stillness prevailed .
Your doors are guarded , the airholes of your cellars are guarded , and I could say to you , as that good La Ramee said to me of the Duc de Beaufort , you must be either bird or mouse to get out. ” “ He did get out , nevertheless. ” “ Do you think of escaping in the same way ? ” “ I am a prisoner , then ? ” “ Parbleu ! ” said Mazarin , “ I have been proving it to you this last hour. ” And he quietly resumed his dispatch at the place where he had been interrupted .
“ Prince Cavalcanti appears to be a young man of rare qualities. ” 40276m “ Listen , ” said the baroness , smiling ; “ speaking to you as a friend I can say that the prince does not yet appear all he will be .
Milady breathed a sigh , and opened her eyes .
“ But what has happened , then , since last evening , count ? ” “ The same thing that happened to Brutus the night before the battle of Philippi ; I have seen a ghost. ” “ And that ghost—— ” “ Told me , Morrel , that I had lived long enough. ” Maximilian and Emmanuel looked at each other .
Franz was prudent , and wished to learn all he possibly could concerning his host .
when there is some idea of being resuscitated , you say he ’ s a scoundrel , an impudent fellow , a miser , a bad master !
He let the jug fall on the floor , and it broke in pieces .
Besides , we are in a situation to overlook ceremony. ” “ Come , then , let us go to your friend ’ s house .
“ Oh , water is even more scarce than wine , your excellency , —there has been such a drought. ” “ Come , ” thought Danglars , “ it is the same old story. ” And while he smiled as he attempted to regard the affair as a joke , he felt his temples get moist with perspiration .
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help , see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org .
Another had done all this ; why , then , was it impossible to Dantès ?
Aramis , Porthos and D ’ Artagnan drew their chairs near him .
If I were to invite you and the Count and Countess of Morcerf to this dinner , I should give it the appearance of being a matrimonial meeting , or at least Madame de Morcerf would look upon the affair in that light , especially if Baron Danglars did me the honor to bring his daughter .
“ The evening arrived ; all Paris was in expectation .
Villefort became pale ; he understood the old man ’ s meaning .
I finish your phrase .
“ Who is this creature ? ” Grimaud did not answer , but bowed a second time .
If you speak a single word to anyone before going aboard ship , my sergeant will blow your brains out .
This promise of an impotent old man was so strange that , instead of being the result of the power of his will , it might emanate from enfeebled organs .
For in truth , I think I have hitherto been deceived in you .
and his predecessors ; and he saw that the complement was not half empty .
“ Wait for me , ” cried he , “ I will soon be back , ” and he set off at a gallop .
Excuse my putting such a question to you. ” “ It is not indiscreet , ” returned Morcerf , with the simplicity of conviction .
Athos made him a sign to go to D ’ Artagnan ’ s residence , and bring back some clothes .
Give me , therefore , one more day before I invite you ; I shall then be certain not to fail in my hospitality. ” “ If you ask me for a day , count , I know what to anticipate ; it will not be a house I shall see , but a palace .
“ I confess , ” observed Monte Cristo , “ that I have some difficulty in comprehending your objection to a young lady who is both rich and beautiful. ” “ Oh , ” said Morcerf , “ this repugnance , if repugnance it may be called , is not all on my side. ” “ Whence can it arise , then ?
I do not remember if it is exactly 48,000 francs , which I am still owing him , but I dare say we shall not dispute the difference .
It must be allowed that Andrea was not very handsome , the hideous scoundrel !
As to Planchet , he has certain reasons for not going to court. ” “ And what are they ? ” “ Oh , he doesn ’ t stand well with his eminence. ” “ Mouston , ” said Porthos , “ saddle Vulcan and Bayard. ” “ And for myself , monsieur , shall I saddle Rustaud ? ” “ No , take a more stylish horse , Phoebus or Superbe ; we are going with some ceremony. ” “ Ah , ” said Mousqueton , breathing more freely , “ you are only going , then , to make a visit ? ” “ Oh !
There are as many elixirs of every kind as there are caprices and peculiarities in the physical and moral nature of humanity ; and I will say further—the art of these chemists is capable with the utmost precision to accommodate and proportion the remedy and the bane to yearnings for love or desires for vengeance. ” “ But , sir , ” remarked the young woman , “ these Eastern societies , in the midst of which you have passed a portion of your existence , are as fantastic as the tales that come from their strange land .
“ And you are happy ? ” he said to his friend .
He launched into a eulogy of his Eminence , and said that he should not have failed to enter into the Guards of the cardinal instead of the king ’ s Guards if he had happened to know M. de Cavois instead of M. de Tréville .
When he had passed one group he began to breathe more freely ; but he could not help observing that they turned round to look at him , and for the first time in his life D ’ Artagnan , who had till that day entertained a very good opinion of himself , felt ridiculous .
I have heard that name in Greece. ” “ In conjunction with the affairs of Ali Pasha ? ” “ Exactly so. ” “ This is the mystery , ” said Danglars .
At the moment of his arrival a small yacht was under trial in the bay ; this yacht had been built by order of an Englishman , who , having heard that the Genoese excelled all other builders along the shores of the Mediterranean in the construction of fast-sailing vessels , was desirous of possessing a specimen of their skill ; the price agreed upon between the Englishman and the Genoese builder was forty thousand francs .
Hermine looked at the banker with supreme disdain .
At his first coming he had not said a word of love to Mercédès ; at the second he reminded her that he loved her .
[ 28 ] Gaspard Puget , the sculptor-architect , was born at Marseilles in 1615 .
Seek them , my lord , and find them , I conjure you. ” “ I will search for them , madame , ” said De Winter “ and doubtless I shall find them ; but time fails me .
We and his majesty will lead the second .
All this , set off by the presence of that excellent prince , who was so good-natured , who invented so droll tricks against Monsieur de Chavigny and so fine jokes against Mazarin , made for La Ramee the approaching Pentecost one of the four great feasts of the year .
Have you not seen M. de Saint-Méran , Madame de Saint-Méran , Barrois , all fall ?
One day when I was reproaching him for his unavailing searches , and deploring the prostration of mind that followed them , he looked at me , and , smiling bitterly , opened a volume relating to the History of the City of Rome .
He lifted up the drapery over the entrance to Edward ’ s room , and his eye reaching as far as Madame de Villefort ’ s apartment , he beheld her extended lifeless on the floor .
The king , quite delighted , inquired if the cardinal was still at the Louvre ; he was told that his Eminence awaited the orders of his Majesty in the business cabinet .
Most people start at our website which has the main PG search facility : www.gutenberg.org .
You will put yourself at the head of the first .
I searched , ransacked , counted , calculated a thousand and a thousand times the income and expenditure of the family for three hundred years .
How does it happen that you are in Paris ? ” “ Rochefort ! ” cried the two friends .
The two Musketeers , who loved their ease , brought a chair for each of themselves and one for Athos .
You believe , and yet you deliver me up to him who fills and defiles the world with his heresies and debaucheries—to that infamous Sardanapalus whom the blind call the Duke of Buckingham , and whom believers name Antichrist ! ” “ I deliver you up to Buckingham ?
we are on the very eve of it .
“ Gracious heaven , ” exclaimed he .
The prisoner whom you there see pale , agitated , and alarmed , instead of—as is the case when a curtain falls on a tragedy—going home to sup peacefully with his family , and then retiring to rest , that he may recommence his mimic woes on the morrow , —is removed from your sight merely to be reconducted to his prison and delivered up to the executioner .
John Felton , I trust your word !
The king ’ s attorney seemed to experience a sensation of pity ; he looked upon her less severely , and , bowing to her , said slowly : “ Farewell , madame , farewell ! ” That farewell struck Madame de Villefort like the executioner ’ s knife .
A quarter of an hour later he was at Greenwich .
“ Come in , ” cried Athos .
I have not a penny about me. ” “ You forget that beautiful handkerchief with the coat of arms. ” “ Which ? ” “ That which I found at your feet , and replaced in your pocket. ” “ Hold your tongue , imprudent man !
“ Eh , eh ! ” said he , reasoning to himself according to the strangely easy morality of that gallant period , “ there is one who will be equipped in good time ! ” Porthos , yielding to the pressure of the arm of the procurator ’ s wife , as a bark yields to the rudder , arrived at the cloister St. Magloire—a little-frequented passage , enclosed with a turnstile at each end .
He had been known , in the circle of the Musketeers , to win in one night three thousand pistoles ; to lose them even to the gold-embroidered belt for gala days , win all this again with the addition of a hundred louis , without his beautiful eyebrow being heightened or lowered half a line , without his hands losing their pearly hue , without his conversation , which was cheerful that evening , ceasing to be calm and agreeable .
A love as tender as that of a lover for his mistress dwells , undoubtedly , in some paternal hearts toward a son .
Their jaws moved preliminarily with fearful threatenings .
But when I have found them , then tremble , sir .
Yes , I have said it and I now repeat it : our destinies are irrevocably united , although we now pursue divergent roads .
In fact , her position was terrible .
His relations with the former court , of which he always spoke with dignity and respect , made him respected by the new one , and he knew so many things , that not only was he always carefully considered , but sometimes consulted .
Two hours after he again landed at Pianosa , where he was assured that red partridges abounded .
“ Anne de Bueil ! ” cried the monk , standing up and lifting his hands to Heaven .
Lay him down here ; we ’ ll gag him and tie him—no matter where—somewhere .
At daybreak I left the chamber without noise , leaving my charming companion asleep .
Listening to the relation of those emotions so fresh and pure , the fine , noble face of Athos betrayed indescribable pleasure ; he inhaled the tones of that young voice , as harmonious music .
For a half league they proceeded thus , the cannon-shot sounding so near that they expected at each discharge to hear the hum of the balls .
“ To nobody in the world. ” “ Not even to Athos or Porthos ? ” “ I have not breathed a syllable to them. ” “ Good enough ! ” Tranquil on this important point , Aramis continued his way with D ’ Artagnan , and both soon arrived at Athos ’ s dwelling .
Unlimited Credit About two o ’ clock the following day a calash , drawn by a pair of magnificent English horses , stopped at the door of Monte Cristo and a person , dressed in a blue coat , with buttons of a similar color , a white waistcoat , over which was displayed a massive gold chain , brown trousers , and a quantity of black hair descending so low over his eyebrows as to leave it doubtful whether it were not artificial so little did its jetty glossiness assimilate with the deep wrinkles stamped on his features—a person , in a word , who , although evidently past fifty , desired to be taken for not more than forty , bent forwards from the carriage door , on the panels of which were emblazoned the armorial bearings of a baron , and directed his groom to inquire at the porter ’ s lodge whether the Count of Monte Cristo resided there , and if he were within .
Then the count threw the bridle of his horse into the hands of a peasant , remounted the steps , went into the cathedral , there to kneel down in the darkest corner and pray .
I can assure you that this hobgoblin of yours is a deuced fine-looking fellow—admirably dressed .
“ It appears to me that we are making a great trouble of a very simple thing .
“ A little better , sir. ” “ Will you drink some of this ether and water ? ” “ I will try ; but don ’ t touch me. ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because I feel that if you were only to touch me with the tip of your finger the fit would return. ” “ Drink. ” Barrois took the glass , and , raising it to his purple lips , took about half of the liquid offered him .
They carried the man to his bed and called Grimaud to dress the wound .
Athos rose , and offering him his hand , “ Be welcome , my Lord , ” said he , “ you are one of us. ” “ I set out five hours after her from Portsmouth , ” said Lord de Winter .
Then each of these men retreated as far as the ditch , from which each took a concealed musket ; the result was that our seven travelers were outnumbered in weapons .
“ My intention , ” said Mazarin , “ is not that you go with a great following ; my plans require secrecy , and would be jeopardized by a too extravagant equipment. ” “ Still , my lord , I can ’ t travel on my pay , for it is now three months behind ; and I can ’ t travel on my savings , for in my twenty-two years of service I have accumulated nothing but debts. ” Mazarin remained some moments in deep thought , as if he were fighting with himself ; then , going to a large cupboard closed with a triple lock , he took from it a bag of silver , and weighing it twice in his hands before he gave it to D ’ Artagnan : “ Take this , ” he said with a sigh , “ ’ tis merely for your journey. ” “ If these are Spanish doubloons , or even gold crowns , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ we shall yet be able to do business together. ” He saluted the cardinal and plunged the bag into the depths of an immense pocket .
“ Yes , ” said Aramis , “ but that one word is the name of some town or village. ” “ _Armentières_ , ” read Porthos ; “ Armentières ?
The person whose mysterious arrival had attracted the attention of Franz stood in a kind of half-light , that rendered it impossible to distinguish his features , although his dress was easily made out .
Athos went in quest of the Englishman , whom he found in the stable , examining the harnesses with a greedy eye .
these horses belong to Monsieur de Montbazon ; well , Monsieur de Montbazon is the husband of Madame de Montbazon—— ” “ And—— ” “ And Madame de Montbazon is the mistress of the Duc de Beaufort. ” “ Ah !
Poor woman !
A draught of wine , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Oh , I ’ ll answer for you , ” said the Gascon , filling Porthos ’ s glass to the brim ; “ but when you have drunk , give me your opinion. ” “ Upon what ? ” asked Porthos .
At four o ’ clock in the morning they heard a terrible riot in the stables .
“ So I have been told already , monseigneur , ” cried Bonacieux , giving his interrogator the title he had heard the officer give him , “ but I swear to you that I know nothing about it. ” The cardinal repressed a smile .
A bolt grated and Danglars was a prisoner .
Well , on the day when your appointment as an officer of the Legion of Honor was announced in the papers , we were all sitting with my grandfather , M. Noirtier ; M. Danglars was there also—you recollect M. Danglars , do you not , Maximilian , the banker , whose horses ran away with my stepmother and little brother , and very nearly killed them ?
Although the young man was brave , as we know , he was terrified at that wild countenance , those terribly dilated pupils , those pale cheeks , and those bleeding lips .
The blade of a dagger was buried up to the hilt in the left side of the executioner .
Grimaud , going in advance , followed the course which they were to take in the evening .
You may reckon upon me and so may your friend. ” Then bowing to the two musketeers with his most gracious smile , he re-entered his closet more calmly , for on the departure of De Gondy the uproar had ceased as though by enchantment .
They know that I am intimate with you—that you are , in fact ; one of the oldest of my Parisian acquaintances—and they will not find you at my house ; they will certainly ask me why I did not invite you .
“ What !
36 , Rue de la Victoire , walked behind this man , whose presence comforted Louise .
Well , my friend , fortune is inconstant , as the chaplain of the regiment said .
Then taking a passport from his drawer he said , — “ Good , it is available for two months longer. ” Chapter 105 .
He complicated this exordium by an exposition in which he painted the power and the deeds of the cardinal , that incomparable minister , that conqueror of past ministers , that example for ministers to come—deeds and power which none could thwart with impunity .
Thus the poor woman was completely the dupe of the prisoner , whom , notwithstanding her hints , she persisted in watching all night .
She must have spoken ; she must have confessed everything—a woman is so weak !
The ground from the steps to the river was covered with snow and hoarfrost , the water of the river looked black and deep .
The Accusation Chapter 81 .
“ The son of a shipowner. ” “ Really , you should relate all this aloud , you would have the greatest success. ” “ He served in India , discovered a mine in Thessaly , and comes to Paris to establish a mineral water-cure at Auteuil. ” “ Well , I ’ m sure , ” said Morcerf , “ this is indeed news !
He took a pencil , tore a page from his tablets and wrote : “ My Dear Marshal , —In an hour Lens will be in the enemy ’ s possession .
As you pass the lodge , wake the porter , and send him for a surgeon. ” Ali obeyed , leaving the abbé alone with Caderousse , who had not yet revived .
Rest assured , gentlemen , that within three days , in a less time than justice would demand , the revenge I shall have taken for the murder of my child will be such as to make the boldest heart tremble ; ” and as he spoke these words he ground his teeth , and grasped the old man ’ s senseless hand .
So I will not abandon this bouquet. ” “ _Pardieu_ , ” returned Franz , laughing , “ in token of your ingratitude. ” The jest , however , soon appeared to become earnest ; for when Albert and Franz again encountered the carriage with the _contadini_ , the one who had thrown the violets to Albert , clapped her hands when she beheld them in his button-hole .
“ It is only for a moment and I know that I belong to you ; but remember that you are not to strike till I give the signal. ” Then he knelt down , made the sign of the cross , and lowering his face to the planks , as if he would have kissed them , said in a low tone , in French , “ Comte de la Fere , are you there ? ” “ Yes , your majesty , ” he answered , trembling .
to break my vow in behalf of the ex-emperor. ” This answer was too clear to permit of any mistake as to his sentiments .
“ And where is she , then ?
“ Are you sure of it ? ” “ Certain , ” replied Grimaud .
Are you not aware that this Italian directs everything , both indoors and out ?
there ’ s a carriage coming over yonder. ” Then bending again to Raoul , he whispered : “ Above all things do not divulge your name. ” “ That ’ s right .
The cardinal is not the man to forget a mystification until he has settled account with the mystifier ; and the mystifier appears to me to have the air of being a certain young Gascon of my acquaintance. ” “ Do you believe that the cardinal is as well posted as yourself , and knows that I have been to London ? ” “ The devil !
Chapter LXX .
The whole army talked of this expedition for a day , and Monsieur paid him his compliments upon it .
“ Forward , Blaisois ! ” A groan , stifled by the grasp of Porthos , was all the reply of poor Blaisois , for the giant , taking him neck and heels , plunged him into the water headforemost , pushing him out of the window as if he had been a plank .
“ I respected your father very much , ” said he .
We have a hundred thousand francs or thereabouts loaned on their securities , and we are a little uneasy at reports that have reached us that the firm is on the brink of ruin .
“ And all this—all this , because my heart , which I thought dead , was only sleeping ; because it has awakened and has begun to beat again , because I have yielded to the pain of the emotion excited in my breast by a woman ’ s voice .
She loved Porthos too dearly to allow him to part thus ; she made him a sign to dismount and come to her .
D ’ Artagnan saw those tears , and much disturbed , softened , he threw himself at her feet .
But young as you are , and scarcely entering into the world , you have powerful enemies ; if you do not take great heed , they will destroy you. ” “ Alas , monseigneur ! ” replied the young man , “ very easily , no doubt , for they are strong and well supported , while I am alone. ” “ Yes , that ’ s true ; but alone as you are , you have done much already , and will do still more , I don ’ t doubt .
We need no proofs ; everything relating to this young man is true. ” A dull , gloomy silence , like that which precedes some awful phenomenon of nature , pervaded the assembly , who shuddered in dismay .
yes , my good friend , this worthy Porthos has just received a sword wound and I am taking him to his country house at Saint Cloud. ” “ Oh !
“ My God , have mercy upon me ! ” and , uttering a fearful cry , Barrois fell back as if he had been struck by lightning .
He felt himself seized by the hair , then he saw and heard nothing .
My God , I am dying ! ” And the duke swooned .
have no society , no neighbors ? ” “ Our companions will be riding-horses , dogs to hunt with , and a fishing-boat. ” “ Exactly what I wish for ; I will apprise my mother of my intention , and return to you. ” “ But shall you be allowed to go into Normandy ? ” “ I may go where I please. ” “ Yes , I am aware you may go alone , since I once met you in Italy—but to accompany the mysterious Monte Cristo ? ” “ You forget , count , that I have often told you of the deep interest my mother takes in you. ” “ ‘ Woman is fickle. ’ said Francis I. ; ‘ woman is like a wave of the sea , ’ said Shakespeare ; both the great king and the great poet ought to have known woman ’ s nature well. ” “ Woman ’ s , yes ; my mother is not woman , but _a_ woman. ” “ As I am only a humble foreigner , you must pardon me if I do not understand all the subtle refinements of your language. ” “ What I mean to say is , that my mother is not quick to give her confidence , but when she does she never changes. ” “ Ah , yes , indeed , ” said Monte Cristo with a sigh ; “ and do you think she is in the least interested in me ? ” “ I repeat it , you must really be a very strange and superior man , for my mother is so absorbed by the interest you have excited , that when I am with her she speaks of no one else. ” “ And does she try to make you dislike me ? ” “ On the contrary , she often says , ‘ Morcerf , I believe the count has a noble nature ; try to gain his esteem. ’ ” “ Indeed ? ” said Monte Cristo , sighing .
_You_ , who have arranged your infernal plans , and removed the beverages with a talent and precision almost miraculous ?
“ Do you wish to speak to us ? ” asked Morrel .
Is it not worth 300,000 francs to save our father ’ s name from the chances of evil fortune and failure ? ’ “ ‘ I thought so , ’ replied Emmanuel ; ‘ but I wished to have your advice. ’ “ ‘ This is my counsel : —Our accounts are made up and our bills paid ; all we have to do is to stop the issue of any more , and close our office. ’ “ This was done instantly .
Ideas do not become extinct , sire ; they slumber sometimes , but only revive the stronger before they sleep entirely. ’ ” “ Ideas and men appeared the same to him , ” said Albert .
“ What is this ? ” “ Wait , your reverence , there is a letter. ” “ You know I have already told you that if you ever call me anything but chevalier I will break every bone in your body .
Those who are known are not the most dangerous. ” “ I know it , and appeal to your penetration .
The aldermen of the city give a fête on the third of October .
I had turned up the earth over a surface of more than twenty feet square , and a depth of two feet .
Was Faria deceived as to his treasure , or was all the world deceived as to Faria ?
let me overtake him ! ” “ He ?
While he turned this over in his mind Planchet did his best to make up for lost time at table .
She had turned from the window , which remained open , and was praying in accents that would have affected the most unfeeling ; her words were rapid , incoherent , unintelligible , for the burning weight of grief almost stopped her utterance .
“ My first impulse , on coming to myself , was to feel under my pillow for the knife I had not been able to reach ; if it had not been useful for defense , it might at least serve for expiation .
D ’ Artagnan was over him at a bound , and said to the Englishman , pointing his sword to his throat , “ I could kill you , my Lord , you are completely in my hands ; but I spare your life for the sake of your sister. ” D ’ Artagnan was at the height of joy ; he had realized the plan he had imagined beforehand , whose picturing had produced the smiles we noted upon his face .
But the Prince de Marsillac !
He had noticed , however , that the prisoner on the other side had ceased to labor ; no matter , this was a greater reason for proceeding—if his neighbor would not come to him , he would go to his neighbor .
Certainly , as he had himself owned , the reputed son of Major Cavalcanti was a wilful fellow .
“ Let me kill him. ” “ We are all four lost , if by the least gesture you discover that you recognize him. ” Then turning to the young man he exclaimed : “ A fine prize !
“ Has he any friends ? ” Then he added aloud , “ Did he make any resistance ? ” “ No , sir , with the exception of two or three friends every one deserted him ; he had no means of resistance. ” “ To whom did he give up his sword ? ” “ He did not give it up ; he broke it. ” “ He did well ; but instead of breaking it , he might have used it to still more advantage. ” There was a momentary pause .
“ Have you had any account of it ? ” “ None .
The casket passed around the table , but it was more to examine the admirable emerald than to see the pills that it passed from hand to hand .
“ ’ Tis your fault , you simpleton , ” answered the duke .
There is madame overwhelming me with questions respecting the count ; she insists upon it that I can tell her his birth , education , and parentage , where he came from , and whither he is going .
D ’ Artagnan , reflecting on his future amours , addressing himself to the beautiful night , and smiling at the stars , ascended the Rue Cherish-Midi , or Chase-Midi , as it was then called .
He shall go thither. ” “ And at his return you will send him to me .
The Ambassadors .
His hands , of which he took little care , were the despair of Aramis , who cultivated his with almond paste and perfumed oil .
At Beauvais they stopped two hours , as well to breathe their horses a little as to wait for Porthos .
Then he began to search .
But to Dantès ’ eye there was no darkness .
The Pardon Chapter 117 .
“ Oh , then my father has really a very large fortune , count ? ” “ It appears so , sir , ” replied Monte Cristo .
0191m The jailer was accustomed to pour the contents of the saucepan into Dantès ’ plate , and Dantès , after eating his soup with a wooden spoon , washed the plate , which thus served for every day .
“ Oh , more than I can say , Kitty !
These proceedings made D ’ Artagnan and Porthos draw back .
“ _Desideras diabolum_ , unhappy man ! ” cried the Jesuit .
“ My lord , ” he said , “ which way do we go ?
Haydée had taken away Ali , and Bertuccio remained with Noirtier .
“ Tell me , ” continued Winter , always possessed by the same idea , “ is there not a tradition in France that Henry IV. , the evening before the day he was assassinated , when he was playing at chess with M. de Bassompiere , saw clots of blood upon the chessboard ? ” “ Yes , ” said Athos , “ and the marechal has often told me so himself. ” “ Then it was so , ” murmured Winter , “ and the next day Henry IV .
He is , doubtless , come to prove the perfect innocence of our colleague .
When the transports of the two lovers were calmer , Milady , who had not the same motives for forgetfulness that D ’ Artagnan had , was the first to return to reality , and asked the young man if the means which were on the morrow to bring on the encounter between him and De Wardes were already arranged in his mind .
Lucien had found time , preparatory to the count ’ s arrival , to relate many particulars respecting him to Madame Danglars .
Faith , no , for between the culprit and the victim I have no choice. ” “ But I , ” cried Morrel , groaning with sorrow , “ I love her ! ” “ You love ? —whom ? ” cried Monte Cristo , starting to his feet , and seizing the two hands which Morrel was raising towards heaven .
“ His excellency the Count of Monte Cristo had , ” he said , “ given positive orders that the carriage was to remain at their lordships ’ orders all day , and they could therefore dispose of it without fear of indiscretion. ” They resolved to profit by the count ’ s courtesy , and ordered the horses to be harnessed , while they substituted evening dress for that which they had on , and which was somewhat the worse for the numerous combats they had sustained .
On perceiving Athos , Aramis advanced toward him , took him by the hand and presented him to Scarron .
He stretched forth his hand , and touched stone ; he rose to his seat , and found himself lying on his bournous in a bed of dry heather , very soft and odoriferous .
Lord de Winter is only her brother-in-law. ” “ I will see her , D ’ Artagnan ! ” “ Beware , Athos , beware .
In two bounds he was at the Louvre ; as he entered the wicket of L ’ Echelle , ten o ’ clock struck .
“ Of what , think you , do young and strong men die in prison , when they have scarcely numbered their thirtieth year , unless it be of imprisonment ? ” Caderousse wiped away the large beads of perspiration that gathered on his brow .
“ Yes , I recognize the voice which speaks to me in my dreams ; yes , I recognize the features of the angel who appears to me every night , crying to my soul , which can not sleep : ‘ Strike , save England , save thyself—for thou wilt die without having appeased God ! ’ Speak , speak ! ” cried Felton , “ I can understand you now. ” A flash of terrible joy , but rapid as thought , gleamed from the eyes of Milady .
You are of so superior a mind , nothing escapes you. ” “ Why do you say so ? ” “ Because , for instance , you noticed on the evening of the ball we gave , that M. de Monte Cristo would eat nothing in our house. ” Mercédès raised herself on her feverish arm .
It need not be said that if in the depths of the heart there is a sentiment more tender , it reaches then , quite naturally , the highest exaltation of which it is capable .
It was saddled and bridled .
“ Ah , sir , ” exclaimed Cocles , “ what can it mean ? —the _Pharaon_ ? ” “ Come , dear ones , ” said Morrel , rising from his seat , “ let us go and see , and Heaven have pity upon us if it be false intelligence ! ” They all went out , and on the stairs met Madame Morrel , who had been afraid to go up into the study .
He had gone to the rendezvous , had encountered there the adversary indicated , whose name he had never known , had given him a pretty sword-stroke on the arm , then had gone toward Aramis , who at the same time came to meet him , having already finished his affair .
Then , assisted by Bicarat , the only one left standing , they bore Jussac , Cahusac , and one of Aramis ’ s adversaries who was only wounded , under the porch of the convent .
Her large eyes were dilated with surprise and expectation , for it was the first time that any man , except Monte Cristo , had been accorded an entrance into her presence .
Be it so .
Raoul did not doubt this was the gentleman and his escort ; he called out to him , but they were too distant to be heard ; then , in spite of the weariness of his beast , he made it gallop but the rising ground soon deprived him of all sight of the travelers , and when he had again attained a new height , the ferryboat had left the shore and was making for the opposite bank .
They wandered about the streets , looking at the pavement as if to see whether the passengers had not left a purse behind them .
“ Ah !
That ’ s against all rules .
She made it her business , therefore , to amuse the good abbess with the worldly practices of the court of France , mixed with the eccentric pursuits of the king ; she made for her the scandalous chronicle of the lords and ladies of the court , whom the abbess knew perfectly by name , touched lightly on the amours of the queen and the Duke of Buckingham , talking a great deal to induce her auditor to talk a little .
“ Yes , I understand. ” “ My lord observes that there will be enough to go around. ” “ We shall take to ourselves the poniards and the rope , ” replied the duke .
0127m Meanwhile what of Mercédès ?
We will each take a thousand livres to be employed as seems good , and we will leave a fund of a thousand livres under the guardianship of Monsieur Abbé here , for extraordinary occasions or common wants .
Twice or thrice thrusts were attempted on both sides , without effect ; sparks were emitted from the swords like water spouting forth .
I think it is kept a secret from grandpapa Noirtier , that the contract is to be signed this evening. ” Morrel went also to the notary , who confirmed the news that the contract was to be signed that evening .
He drew near to the window , and placing himself so that a ray of light should fall upon the letter as he held it , he drew it from his pocket and read it again ; but he had not been mistaken , the appointment was for ten o ’ clock .
“ And I know my son had good reasons to wish to fight with you , and to endeavor to kill you. ” “ Yes , sir , he had very good ones ; but you see that in spite of them he has not killed me , and did not even fight. ” “ Yet he considered you the cause of his father ’ s dishonor , the cause of the fearful ruin which has fallen on my house. ” “ It is true , sir , ” said Monte Cristo with his dreadful calmness ; “ a secondary cause , but not the principal. ” “ Doubtless you made , then , some apology or explanation ? ” “ I explained nothing , and it is he who apologized to me. ” “ But to what do you attribute this conduct ? ” “ To the conviction , probably , that there was one more guilty than I. ” “ And who was that ? ” “ His father. ” “ That may be , ” said the count , turning pale ; “ but you know the guilty do not like to find themselves convicted. ” “ I know it , and I expected this result. ” “ You expected my son would be a coward ? ” cried the count .
“ Monsieur , you run no risk , for , as I told you , I will stay here ; so there is no chance of my escaping. ” “ You do not reply to my question , ” replied the inspector impatiently .
The proposal was seductive , but La Ramee was an old stager , acquainted with all the traps a prisoner was likely to set .
“ The devil ! ” murmured he , between his teeth .
“ Yes , and I say to you , if you are really strong , really superior , really pious , or impenetrable , which you were right in saying amounts to the same thing—then be proud , sir , for that is the characteristic of predominance .
Only warn him that it is you. ” “ Why should I do that ? ” “ Because , monsieur , some mischief might happen to you. ” “ Of what kind , in the name of wonder ? ” “ Monsieur Porthos may imagine you belong to the house , and in a fit of passion might run his sword through you or blow out your brains. ” “ What have you done to him , then ? ” “ We have asked him for money. ” “ The devil !
One can say anything to me .
The count appeared , dressed with the greatest simplicity , but the most fastidious dandy could have found nothing to cavil at in his toilet .
Villefort traversed the antechamber , cast a side glance at Dantès , and taking a packet which a gendarme offered him , disappeared , saying , “ Bring in the prisoner. ” Rapid as had been Villefort ’ s glance , it had served to give him an idea of the man he was about to interrogate .
“ I will make verses , ” said he .
Milady , not seeing me come again , would not be able to understand what could cause the interruption of my visits , and might suspect something ; who could say how far the vengeance of such a woman would go ? ” “ Oh , my God ! ” said Kitty , “ you know how to represent things in such a way that you are always in the right .
Then he added aloud , “ Yes , sir , I am hungry—very hungry. ” “ And your excellency wants something to eat ? ” “ At once , if possible ” “ Nothing easier , ” said Peppino .
More than this , the conversation which had just taken place between Mercédès and himself had awakened so many recollections in his heart that he felt it necessary to combat with them .
The man made no reply .
It was nine o ’ clock in the evening ; the sentinels had been relieved at eight and Captain Groslow had been on guard for an hour .
I rose , and again began digging and enlarging the hole ; still I found nothing , nothing—the chest was no longer there ! ” 30269m “ The chest no longer there ? ” murmured Madame Danglars , choking with fear .
Pale , and sweetly smiling , she looked like an angel of mercy conjuring the angel of vengeance .
Can it be on account of the amours of Madame de Bois-Tracy ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , wishing to have the air , in the eyes of the citizen , of being posted as to court affairs .
In this garden Mercédès had found , at the place indicated by the count , the sum of money which he , through a sense of delicacy , had described as having been placed there twenty-four years previously .
“ Madame , ” said Athos , “ when must we set out ? ” “ You consent then ? ” exclaimed the queen , joyfully .
Shells ?
Chapter XXXII .
“ Anne de Bueil !
It seems to me that it is neither your Majesty nor myself who can charge himself with such a mission. ” “ How did they act with regard to the Maréchale d ’ Ancre ? ” cried the king , in the highest state of choler ; “ first her closets were thoroughly searched , and then she herself. ” “ The Maréchale d ’ Ancre was no more than the Maréchale d ’ Ancre .
Each word that fell from his companion ’ s lips seemed fraught with the mysteries of science , as worthy of digging out as the gold and diamonds in the mines of Guzerat and Golconda , which he could just recollect having visited during a voyage made in his earliest youth .
“ You talk like a noodle , my friend , ” said Caderousse ; “ and here is Danglars , who is a wide-awake , clever , deep fellow , who will prove to you that you are wrong .
The two women who thus knelt in united prayer were the daughter and grand-daughter of Henry IV. , the wife and daughter of Charles I .
“ Wait , madame , ” continued Athos , “ what remains for me to tell you is even more strange than what I have narrated. ” “ Monsieur , ” said Madame de Chevreuse , “ I believe you are a sorcerer ; I am prepared for anything .
Chapter LX .
“ I did not like to go to him without first seeing you. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because the count is doubtless aware that I accompanied you to the meeting this morning. ” 40254m “ It is probable , ” said Albert .
“ But , ” said Andrea , ill-temperedly , “ by my faith , if it was only to breakfast with you , that you disturbed me , I wish the devil had taken you ! ” “ My boy , ” said Caderousse sententiously , “ one can talk while eating .
It appears , sir , that this Edmond Dantès had procured tools , or made them , for they found a tunnel through which the prisoners held communication with one another. ” “ This tunnel was dug , no doubt , with an intention of escape ? ” “ No doubt ; but unfortunately for the prisoners , the Abbé Faria had an attack of catalepsy , and died. ” “ That must have cut short the projects of escape. ” “ For the dead man , yes , ” replied M. de Boville , “ but not for the survivor ; on the contrary , this Dantès saw a means of accelerating his escape .
Monsieur Bertuccio Meanwhile the count had arrived at his house ; it had taken him six minutes to perform the distance , but these six minutes were sufficient to induce twenty young men who knew the price of the equipage they had been unable to purchase themselves , to put their horses in a gallop in order to see the rich foreigner who could afford to give 20,000 francs apiece for his horses .
She seemed , however , by certain signs , to recognize a door , and approaching that door , “ And now , monsieur , ” said she , “ it is here I have business ; a thousand thanks for your honorable company , which has saved me from all the dangers to which , alone , I was exposed .
“ I could almost believe myself at the Café de Paris , ” murmured Danglars .
“ Well , then , ” said the Gascon , “ take care of yourself , for I am not a bad hand at the rapier. ” “ Nor I either. ” “ So much the better ; that sets my mind at rest .
Planchet recognized him first .
He was thought to be dead ; his wife , especially , who cherished the pleasing idea that she was a widow , stoutly maintained that death had taken him .
“ You smile. ” “ Yes. ” “ Why do you do so ? ” “ I smile because there appears to me to be about as much inclination for the consummation of the engagement in question as there is for my own .
M. Cavalcanti remained master of the field .
“ I can hold out no longer , for I fear I shall be wanting in strength at the moment when I shall be forced to undergo the struggle , and confess my faith .
With the aid of his pickaxe , Dantès , after the manner of a labor-saving pioneer , dug a mine between the upper rock and the one that supported it , filled it with powder , then made a match by rolling his handkerchief in saltpetre .
Thus it was with much politeness of manner that he heard Cavalcanti pronounce these words : “ Tomorrow , sir , I shall have the honor of waiting upon you on business. ” “ And I , sir , ” said Danglars , “ shall be most happy to receive you. ” Upon which he offered to take Cavalcanti in his carriage to the Hôtel des Princes , if it would not be depriving him of the company of his son .
Let me hasten to add , ” continued he , “ that the testator , having only the right to alienate a part of his fortune , and having alienated it all , the will will not bear scrutiny , and is declared null and void. ” “ Yes. ” said Villefort ; “ but I warn M. d ’ Épinay , that during my life-time my father ’ s will shall never be questioned , my position forbidding any doubt to be entertained. ” 40032m “ Sir , ” said Franz , “ I regret much that such a question has been raised in the presence of Mademoiselle Valentine ; I have never inquired the amount of her fortune , which , however limited it may be , exceeds mine .
The Contract Three days after the scene we have just described , namely towards five o ’ clock in the afternoon of the day fixed for the signature of the contract between Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars and Andrea Cavalcanti , whom the banker persisted in calling prince , a fresh breeze was stirring the leaves in the little garden in front of the Count of Monte Cristo ’ s house , and the count was preparing to go out .
The abbé began like you , and in three days you will be like him , mad enough to tie up ; but , fortunately , there are dungeons here. ” Dantès whirled the stool round his head .
“ Yes , ” continued the curate , apparently accustomed to this tone , “ yes , we wish to know your opinion of the events of to-day and what you have heard said by people going in and out of the church. ” The mendicant shook his head .
He arrived at his usual hour , with a proud look and insolent demeanor ; he alighted , passed through the corridors , and entered the house without observing the hesitation of the door-keepers or the coolness of his colleagues .
Fernand looked at them both with a stupefied air , but did not say a word .
At a hundred paces from the gates of Calais , D ’ Artagnan ’ s horse gave out , and could not by any means be made to get up again , the blood flowing from his eyes and his nose .
Thrones are at this time shaken and it is to little purpose for devoted hearts to serve the interests of princes .
There are the Prince de Conti , the Duc de Longueville , the Duc de Beaufort , the Duc de Bouillon , the Marechal de la Mothe , the Marquis de Sevigne , and I don ’ t know who , for my part. ” “ And the Vicomte Raoul de Bragelonne ? ” inquired Athos , in a tremulous voice .
I bitterly reproach myself , I assure you. ” “ Well , what does it signify , Valentine , so long as I am satisfied , and feel that even this long and painful suspense is amply repaid by five minutes of your society , or two words from your lips ?
Take it from me then , and so long at least as I receive my income , you shall be paid yours. ” “ Come , come ; I always said you were a fine fellow , and it is a blessing when good fortune happens to such as you .
“ In that case , sir , ” rejoined Madame de Villefort , “ I will leave you overwhelmed with gratitude and happiness at your prompt acquiescence to my wishes. ” She then bowed to M. Noirtier and retired .
They advanced , and Athos , who was the first to enter , gazed a moment in silence on that pale and noble face , framed in its long and now untidy , matted hair , the blue veins showing through the transparent temples , his eyes seemingly swollen by tears .
Notwithstanding his large stomach , certainly not intended to penetrate the fissures of the Campagna , he slid down like Peppino , and closing his eyes fell upon his feet .
Consider well what you do in that house .
Four years ago , Penelon was at Trieste—Penelon , count , is the old sailor you saw in the garden , and who , from quartermaster , has become gardener—Penelon , when he was at Trieste , saw on the quay an Englishman , who was on the point of embarking on board a yacht , and he recognized him as the person who called on my father the fifth of June , 1829 , and who wrote me this letter on the fifth of September .
de Saint-Méran had always expressed a desire , in case his death happened during his absence from Paris , that his body might be brought to the family vault .
Next morning D ’ Artagnan was the first to rise .
Athos arrested !
When they reached the side of this felucca , Mordaunt , dexterous in his eagerness for vengeance , seized a rope and climbed up the side of the vessel with a coolness and agility very rare among landsmen .
Athos always carried the key of this coffer about him ; but he one day opened it before Porthos , and Porthos was convinced that this coffer contained nothing but letters and papers—love letters and family papers , no doubt .
“ Here is a glass with one already prepared , ” said Villefort , entering the room .
“ A little farther—a little farther , ” said the other .
“ At last ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Bonacieux would be accused of having introduced her lover into the Louvre , that was all .
what ails you ? ” asked Porthos .
An overhanging rock offered him a temporary shelter , and scarcely had he availed himself of it when the tempest burst forth in all its fury .
I don ’ t like Mazarin any better than you do .
“ She went to the Palais , ” replied the steward .
“ To give ten francs to this honest fellow , ” replied Raoul , taking a pistole from his pocket .
“ What is it you want ? ” said the inspector .
“ Your affair is not bad , ” said Athos , after having tasted like a connoisseur and indicated by a nod of his head that he thought the wine good ; “ and one may draw fifty or sixty pistoles from this good man .
Three days afterwards , this poor vulture , which has been very much indisposed since that dinner , suddenly feels very giddy while flying aloft in the clouds , and falls heavily into a fish-pond .
“ Who made the lemonade ? ” “ I did. ” “ Did you bring it to your master directly it was made ? ” “ No. ” “ You left it somewhere , then , in the meantime ? ” “ Yes ; I left it in the pantry , because I was called away. ” “ Who brought it into this room , then ? ” “ Mademoiselle Valentine. ” D ’ Avrigny struck his forehead with his hand .
But D ’ Artagnan was not a man to let himself be killed like that .
“ True , ” said the abbé , with a stifled sigh , “ Mercédès it was. ” “ Go on , ” urged Caderousse .
Who has paid me this attention ? ” “ My mistress , sir .
Unfortunately he was in a bad vein ; he lost all , together with twenty-five pistoles for which he had given his word .
Patience , patience !
I make no account of the harm Mordaunt can do ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
I assure you , you are well known in the Rue Meslay. ” “ Your family appears to be a very happy one , ” said the count , as if speaking to himself .
“ No , but we are going to , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , pointing to Grimaud , who had already climbed some five or six feet from the ground .
“ I am very glad to see that you understand the value of these papers. ” “ I regard them as invaluable. ” “ Now , ” said Monte Cristo “ as to the mother of the young man—— ” “ As to the mother of the young man—— ” repeated the Italian , with anxiety .
But first of all I must get there. ” He went back to the room where he had left Monte Cristo .
He came to request his master to return to his lodgings , where his presence was urgent , as he piteously said .
Therefore , he knew nothing either of the enemy ’ s numbers , or of those in command , or of the purpose of the army .
The sight of this , instead of exciting the anguish experienced by the count in the dungeon , filled his heart with a soft and grateful sentiment , and tears fell from his eyes .
30. ” “ Ah , ” said Caderousse , “ No .
Bonacieux , “ we shall hear no more. ” “ On the contrary , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ we shall hear better. ” D ’ Artagnan raised the three or four boards which made his chamber another ear of Dionysius , spread a carpet on the floor , went upon his knees , and made a sign to Mme .
“ That one ? ” “ Yes , the third. ” “ The one in the dark blue coat ? ” “ Yes. ” “ He is a colleague of the count , and one of the most active opponents to the idea of providing the Chamber of Peers with a uniform .
“ Why , ” said she , “ you could plant one of the chestnut-trees in the Tuileries inside !
Valentine was so pale , so cold , so inanimate that without listening to what was said to them they were seized with the fear which pervaded that house , and they flew into the passage crying for help .
The closet was empty .
Poor queen , already fallen !
Athos and Aramis entered last and locked the door behind them .
The devil ! ” said Porthos .
It might be expected that the attack , if indeed an attack was projected , would be made from the staircase of the ground floor , and not from a window ; in Monte Cristo ’ s opinion , the villains sought his life , not his money .
de Villefort is here. ” “ Well ? ” “ He comes to fetch his wife and daughter. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because Madame de Saint-Méran is just arrived in Paris , bringing the news of M. de Saint-Méran ’ s death , which took place on the first stage after he left Marseilles .
yes , had I died years ago ; but now to die would be , indeed , to give way to the sarcasm of destiny .
I could not help thinking so just now ; the idea came over my mind , and as mademoiselle entered the sight of her was an additional ray of light thrown on a confused remembrance ; excuse the remark. ” “ I do not think it likely , sir ; Mademoiselle de Villefort is not very fond of society , and we very seldom go out , ” said the young lady .
This time he could not blame Dantès .
The fact was , nobody had observed a horse entered by the name of Vampa , or that of a jockey styled Job , when , at the last moment , a splendid roan , mounted by a jockey about as big as your fist , presented themselves at the starting-post .
“ You know , Bragelonne , ” said Athos , “ I never speak without reflection. ” “ Well , comte , I am going instantly , ” interrupted the duchess , “ to send for the Prince de Marsillac , who is happily , in Paris just now .
If we are so fortunate as to have some particular duty to perform for your Eminence , we are ready to obey you .
Sinbad started and looked fixedly at him , as he replied , “ What makes you suppose so ? ” “ Everything , ” answered Franz , — “ your voice , your look , your pallid complexion , and even the life you lead. ” “ I ? —I live the happiest life possible , the real life of a pasha .
Dead , dead ! ” The cold sweat sprang to the young man ’ s brow , and his teeth chattered .
It was forty-eight hours since I had taken any nourishment .
On the cross I swear to denounce you everywhere as a murderer , as a thief of honor , as a base coward !
She allowed , therefore , half an hour to pass away ; and as at that moment all was silence in the old castle , as nothing was heard but the eternal murmur of the waves—that immense breaking of the ocean—with her pure , harmonious , and powerful voice , she began the first couplet of the psalm then in great favor with the Puritans : “ Thou leavest thy servants , Lord , To see if they be strong ; But soon thou dost afford Thy hand to lead them on. ” These verses were not excellent—very far from it ; but as it is well known , the Puritans did not pique themselves upon their poetry .
Look at it , Aramis. ” The roll call finished , the president ordered them to read the act of accusation .
50201m “ Maximilian , ” said the count , without appearing to notice the different impressions which his presence produced on the little circle , “ I come to seek you. ” “ To seek me ? ” repeated Morrel , as if awakening from a dream .
It was then that he told me two cavaliers of the Parisian army were seeking me and named the Comte de la Fere. ” “ What !
Reassure yourself , then , and say to yourself : ‘ At this moment , a friend , a father , who lives for my happiness and that of Maximilian , watches over me ! ’ ” “ Alas , alas , what a fearful extremity ! ” “ Valentine , would you rather denounce your stepmother ? ” “ I would rather die a hundred times—oh , yes , die ! ” “ No , you will not die ; but will you promise me , whatever happens , that you will not complain , but hope ? ” “ I will think of Maximilian ! ” “ You are my own darling child , Valentine !
“ Summon Bertuccio , ” said the count .
“ Faith , ” said Aramis , laughing , “ we have praised the dead enough , let us revile the living a little ; I should like to say something evil of Mazarin ; is it permissible ? ” “ Go on , go on , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , laughing heartily ; “ relate your story and I will applaud it if it is a good one. ” “ A great prince , ” said Aramis , “ with whom Mazarin sought an alliance , was invited by him to send him a list of the conditions on which he would do him the honor to negotiate with him .
D ’ Artagnan went up to him ; with his usual quickness he caught the anxious glance .
‘ I come in the name of our master , Ali Tepelini. ’ — ‘ If you come from Ali himself , ’ said Selim , ‘ you know what you were charged to remit to me ? ’ — ‘ Yes , ’ said the messenger , ‘ and I bring you his ring. ’ At these words he raised his hand above his head , to show the token ; but it was too far off , and there was not light enough to enable Selim , where he was standing , to distinguish and recognize the object presented to his view .
“ You see , my poor friend , that I am sometimes bereft of my ordinary thoughtfulness ; perhaps I am wrong in speaking thus to you , who have evidently a leaning to Mazarin. ” “ I ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ not in the least. ” “ You spoke of a mission. ” “ Did I ?
This rough appeal , marked by the eloquence which characterized Mazarin when he spoke in Italian or Spanish and which he lost entirely in speaking French , was uttered with such impenetrable expression that Gondy , clever physiognomist as he was , had no suspicion of its being more than a simple warning to be more subdued .
Listen , then. ” “ Ah , ” murmured Caderousse , “ what a strange priest you are ; you drive the dying to despair , instead of consoling them. ” “ Listen , ” continued the abbé .
A man of the count ’ s temperament could not long indulge in that melancholy which can exist in common minds , but which destroys superior ones .
Still more , he has lifted the corner of her mask—that shield with which she covered herself and which rendered her so strong .
You then served Louis XVIII. , and you did not show any favor—it was your duty ; today you serve Napoleon , and you ought to protect him—it is equally your duty ; I come , therefore , to ask what has become of him ? ” 0161m Villefort by a strong effort sought to control himself .
Ah !
30169m “ Notary , ” said she , “ do you want a notary , dear grandpapa ? ” The old man again signified that it was a notary he desired .
D ’ Artagnan stretched out his arm in which he held the lantern , put his head in at the half opened door , and seeing that the cabin was nothing better than a shed : “ Good , ” he said .
“ You are joking now , ” replied Andrea .
But I , as you see , am nailed to my bed—ah !
Father and Daughter VOLUME FIVE Chapter 96 .
She ground her teeth ; she was of the color of ashes .
Now promise me to remember this , and expect me the 21st of May at the same hour in the forenoon. ” “ Capital ! ” exclaimed Albert ; “ your breakfast shall be waiting. ” “ Where do you live ? ” “ No .
Mazarin himself , who was well accustomed to the domestic outbreaks of this disturbed household , was alarmed .
The coadjutor alone obtained nothing .
THE CARMELITE CONVENT AT BÉTHUNE Chapter LXII .
Milady smiled , and D ’ Artagnan felt that he could damn himself for that smile .
“ We are not come here , sir , to exchange hypocritical expressions of politeness , or false professions of friendship , ” said Albert , “ but to demand an explanation. ” The young man ’ s trembling voice was scarcely audible .
Now I can not be sure of the approbation or disapprobation of a client who can not speak , and as the object of his desire or his repugnance can not be clearly proved to me , on account of his want of speech , my services here would be quite useless , and can not be legally exercised. ” The notary then prepared to retire .
He had just acted the inexorable judge with her , he had condemned her to death , and she , crushed by remorse , struck with terror , covered with the shame inspired by the eloquence of _his_ irreproachable virtue , —she , a poor , weak woman , without help or the power of defending herself against his absolute and supreme will , —she might at that very moment , perhaps , be preparing to die !
He approached the hole he had dug , and now , with the aid of the torch , saw that his pickaxe had in reality struck against iron and wood .
Chapter IX .
The abbess suspects nothing , and believes that I am taken by order of the cardinal .
“ I pardon you , ” said he , “ for the poisoning of my brother , and the assassination of his Grace , Lord Buckingham .
However , they left the castle behind ; that was the principal thing .
In the morning , as he was mounting his horse , D ’ Artagnan , who felt at the bottom of his heart a partiality for the duke , took Planchet aside .
I grasped the railings ; if I had relaxed my hold for a moment , I should have fallen .
“ As for me , I had been forgotten in the general confusion ; I ran toward Ali Tepelini ; he saw me hold out my arms to him , and he stooped down and pressed my forehead with his lips .
How had he discovered her arrival , and caused her to be seized ?
“ A moment later he came down again , holding in his hand the small shagreen case , which he opened , to assure himself it contained the diamond , —seemed to hesitate as to which pocket he should put it in , then , as if dissatisfied with the security of either pocket , he deposited it in his red handkerchief , which he carefully rolled round his head .
“ You love me , you ! ” cried he .
in the name of Heaven ! ” cried the poor tutor .
Morcerf was so completely overwhelmed by this great and unexpected calamity that he could scarcely stammer a few words as he looked around on the assembly .
The Island of Tiboulen Dantès , although stunned and almost suffocated , had sufficient presence of mind to hold his breath , and as his right hand ( prepared as he was for every chance ) held his knife open , he rapidly ripped up the sack , extricated his arm , and then his body ; but in spite of all his efforts to free himself from the shot , he felt it dragging him down still lower .
Now , I am perhaps going to make an imprudent and thoughtless request , but—— ” “ Say on. ” “ But , since you go out with Haydée , and sometimes even take her to the Opera—— ” “ Well ? ” “ I think I may venture to ask you this favor. ” “ You may venture to ask me anything. ” “ Well then , my dear count , present me to your princess. ” “ I will do so ; but on two conditions. ” “ I accept them at once. ” “ The first is , that you will never tell anyone that I have granted the interview. ” “ Very well , ” said Albert , extending his hand ; “ I swear I will not. ” “ The second is , that you will not tell her that your father ever served hers. ” “ I give you my oath that I will not. ” “ Enough , viscount ; you will remember those two vows , will you not ?
When he quitted me , he bade me be of good courage , and to rely upon his doing all in his power to convince my judges of my innocence .
The prince assigned to every one his post .
Instead of running after adventures I shall accept an invitation from Porthos ; I shall go and shoot on his estate .
Imprudent , thrice imprudent ! ” “ No , monsieur , be satisfied ; nobody saw her , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , and he related to M. de Tréville how the affair came to pass .
She thought that Lord de Winter would perhaps send Felton himself to get the order signed by the Duke of Buckingham .
I only speak that exact truth. ” “ And you say that one of your friends lives in that house ? ” “ I say so , and I repeat it for the third time ; that house is one inhabited by my friend , and that friend is Aramis. ” “ All this will be cleared up at a later period , ” murmured the young woman ; “ no , monsieur , be silent. ” “ If you could see my heart , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you would there read so much curiosity that you would pity me and so much love that you would instantly satisfy my curiosity .
If it was Valentine alone , he would speak as she passed ; if she was accompanied , and he could not speak , still he should see her , and know that she was safe ; if they were strangers , he would listen to their conversation , and might understand something of this hitherto incomprehensible mystery .
And this double order which the young lieutenant gave to the same individuals proved to Milady that her servants were the same men as her guards ; that is to say , soldiers .
“ If by the cause of the king you mean that of Monsieur de Mazarin , we do not understand each other. ” “ I don ’ t say exactly , ” answered the Gascon , confused .
Oh , it is impossible—you must have saved some surer , more subtle and deadly poison than any other , that you might escape the punishment that you deserve .
Athos , however , perpetually recurred to his proposed interview with the queen .
Port Wine .
But when you have the honor of associating with ordinary men , and the pleasure of leaving politics for a moment , try to find your affectionate heart , which you leave with your stick when you go to the Chamber. ” “ But tell me , ” said Beauchamp , “ what is life ?
Mazarin was desirous of setting out instantly for Saint Germain , but the queen declared that she should wait for the people whom she had appointed to meet her .
If you received the work electronically , the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund .
“ My mother , ” replied the young princess , “ a cavalier has just entered the Louvre and wishes to present his respects to your majesty ; he arrives from the army and has , he says , a letter to remit to you , on the part of the Marechal de Grammont , I think. ” “ Ah ! ” said the queen to De Winter , “ he is one of my faithful adherents ; but do you not observe , my dear lord , that we are so poorly served that it is left to my daughter to fill the office of doorkeeper ? ” “ Madame , have pity on me , ” exclaimed De Winter ; “ you wring my heart ! ” “ And who is this cavalier , Henrietta ? ” asked the queen .
Planchet was in truth no vulgar companion in these new adventures ; he was a man of uncommonly sound sense .
“ Bring here immediately the king ’ s attorney , M. de Villefort , who lives in the Faubourg Saint-Honoré .
“ My mother experienced the same sensations , for I felt her tremble .
Then D ’ Artagnan described the meeting which he had at the church , and how he had found that lady who , with the seigneur in the black cloak and with the scar near his temple , filled his mind constantly .
Which is the nearest way ?
But the royal couriers have been more expeditious than you , and here are Monsieur de Flamarens and Monsieur de Chatillon , who bring me from Her Majesty the Queen Anne of Austria , the very latest intelligence. ” Aramis and Athos were astounded by the calmness , even the gayety of the queen ’ s manner .
When they were seated in the carriage the president reminded the general of his promise to allow his eyes to be bandaged , to which he made no opposition .
But still further , his education had been so little neglected , even with respect to scholastic studies , so rare at this time among gentlemen , that he smiled at the scraps of Latin which Aramis sported and which Porthos pretended to understand .
“ Who the beggar was that I killed. ” “ Ah !
She had already been an hour in this apartment ; they could not long delay bringing her a repast .
on the contrary , let us speak about it ; for it was agreed among us , once for all , that we should always hold together , though engaged on opposing sides. ” “ Yes , ” added Athos , “ I now ask you , D ’ Artagnan , what side you are on ?
D ’ Artagnan had appointed six o ’ clock in the morning for his lackey , and wherever he might be , he was right .
The poor girl , pale as death and trembling in all her limbs , wished to delay her lover ; but Milady , with her ear on the watch , had heard the noise D ’ Artagnan had made , and opening the door , said , “ Come in. ” All this was of such incredible immodesty , of such monstrous effrontery , that D ’ Artagnan could scarcely believe what he saw or what he heard .
The whole assembly manifested great surprise , but Andrea appeared quite unmoved .
The coachman stooped down for his orders .
“ You certainly are a demon sent upon the earth ! ” said Athos .
Let us wait for a dénouement—for the day when the prince , thanks to you , shall have turned against the court. ” Madame de Longueville was persuaded .
“ And if I give you this password , ” said she , “ would you forget it as soon as you used it ? ” “ By my honor , by the faith of a gentleman ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , with an accent so truthful that no one could mistake it .
“ Ah , you see that plan was not sure enough ; he might go out by one gate and return by another. ” “ Where is he , then ? ” “ In the cellar. ” “ The cellar—what cellar ? ” “ Our landlord ’ s , to be sure .
Chapter XII .
Nothing could turn him from his purpose .
Then he pointed to the door .
You may torture , torment , kill me , but you shall not have my signature again ! ” “ As your excellency pleases , ” said Vampa , as he left the cell .
Silence , purveyor of gossip , do not spread that report .
“ Well , ” said Franz , “ anything new ? —do they refuse ? ” “ On the contrary , ” returned Gaetano , “ the chief , who was told you were a young Frenchman , invites you to sup with him. ” “ Well , ” observed Franz , “ this chief is very polite , and I see no objection—the more so as I bring my share of the supper. ” “ Oh , it is not that ; he has plenty , and to spare , for supper ; but he makes one condition , and rather a peculiar one , before he will receive you at his house. ” “ His house ?
“ Yes , that first , and other things afterward. ” “ Speak. ” “ It is a thing of the highest interest , and upon which our future fortune perhaps depends. ” “ The complexion of our fortune has changed very much since I saw you , Madame Bonacieux , and I should not be astonished if in the course of a few months it were to excite the envy of many folks. ” “ Yes , particularly if you follow the instructions I am about to give you. ” “ Me ? ” “ Yes , you .
Bah , it is now nearly healed , and I am sure it is not that which gives you the most pain. ” “ What , then ? ” said Aramis , blushing .
This silence and this interruption in serving , which were unintelligible to Porthos , had , on the contrary , a terrible meaning for the clerks .
Once within the interior of the court , the duke and the young woman followed the wall for the space of about twenty-five steps .
“ Do you understand me ? ” he said .
What are you thinking of this evening ? ” Bertuccio sprang out , and offered his shoulder to the count , who , this time , leaned upon it as he descended the three steps of the carriage .
Nor , although preceding the party , did he once mistake one door for another , or commit the smallest error when choosing any particular corridor or staircase to conduct him to a place or suite of rooms he desired to visit .
Mazarin resumed his reading : “ It is important , therefore , monseigneur , that I should be informed as to the intentions of France .
But his wound had rendered him too weak to support such an exertion .
Second , Porthos stretched his upon the grass with a wound through his thigh , As the Englishman , without making any further resistance , then surrendered his sword , Porthos took him up in his arms and bore him to his carriage .
Oh , I will be revenged ! ” “ I believed that Madame loved him. ” “ I love him ?
He proceeded , nevertheless , and came opposite to an iron gate , ornamented in the taste of the period .
Shall I tell you each ornament of your toilet ?
Porthos turned aside , in order not to show by his honest round face what was passing in his mind .
He had been obliged to seclude himself more than ever , to evade the enormous number of applications presented to him for the purpose of obtaining tickets of admission to the court on the day of trial .
Does it happen to be Jacopo Manfredi ? ” “ Exactly so .
But what can I do with you ?
“ He ! ” he cried ; “ he venture himself amongst us , to be hung !
All that Edmond had been able to do was to drag himself about a dozen paces forward to lean against a moss-grown rock .
Why , if a Parisian were to indulge in a quarter of these marks of flattering attention , her reputation would be gone forever. ” “ And the very reason why the women of this fine country , ‘ where sounds the _si_ , ’ as Dante writes , put so little restraint on their words and actions , is because they live so much in public , and have really nothing to conceal .
what has happened ? ” “ Quick !
“ Then you know the men who are now on Monte Cristo ? ” “ Oh , yes , we sailors are like freemasons , and recognize each other by signs. ” “ And do you think we have nothing to fear if we land ? ” “ Nothing at all ; smugglers are not thieves. ” “ But these two Corsican bandits ? ” said Franz , calculating the chances of peril .
The Swiss became as purple as a peony .
If my mother could know of this attention on your part—and I will venture to tell her—I am sure that she will be most grateful to you ; it is true that my father will be equally angry. ” The count laughed .
You are a lieutenant ?
“ No , no , ” continued Danglars ; “ if we resolve on such a step , it would be much better to take , as I now do , this pen , dip it into this ink , and write with the left hand ( that the writing may not be recognized ) the denunciation we propose. ” And Danglars , uniting practice with theory , wrote with his left hand , and in a writing reversed from his usual style , and totally unlike it , the following lines , which he handed to Fernand , and which Fernand read in an undertone : “ The honorable , the king ’ s attorney , is informed by a friend of the throne and religion , that one Edmond Dantès , mate of the ship _Pharaon_ , arrived this morning from Smyrna , after having touched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo , has been intrusted by Murat with a letter for the usurper , and by the usurper with a letter for the Bonapartist committee in Paris .
“ Weep , ” said Athos , “ weep , heart full of love , youth , and life !
Pay no attention to it ; you have nothing to occupy yourself with but being happy. ” “ Then I have full occupation , for I am so. ” “ Not yet ; wait a little !
This was their mutual declaration of love .
“ Oh , unfortunate ! ” he cried , “ they must have obtained my arrest. ” The carriage continued to roll on with frightful speed .
I will not sleep where I must scorn .
One only chance was left me , that of beseeching the magistrate before whom I was taken to cause every inquiry to be made for the Abbé Busoni , who had stopped at the inn of the Pont du Gard on that morning .
Abraham raised the knife against Isaac , and Isaac was his son. ” “ Yes , ” said Cromwell , “ but the Lord did not suffer that sacrifice to be accomplished. ” “ I have looked around me , ” said Mordaunt , “ and I have seen neither goat nor kid caught among the bushes of the plain. ” Cromwell bowed .
This knife is the knife with which Felton stabbed him .
“ Now , ” said Valentine , motioning to Morrel to sit down near her grandfather , while she took her seat on his footstool , — “ now let us talk about our own affairs .
“ See , I have not slept , ” said Villefort , showing his undisturbed bed ; “ grief does not stun me .
0323m Like other dwellers in the south , he was a man of sober habits and moderate desires , but fond of external show , vain , and addicted to display .
The Shade of Cardinal Richelieu .
“ Woe , ” he cried , “ to those who confined me in that wretched prison ; and woe to those who forgot that I was there ! ” 50229m As he repassed the Catalans , the count turned around and burying his head in his cloak murmured the name of a woman .
A sorrowful smile passed over his face ; he asked himself what had become of Mercédès , who must believe him dead .
Follow my advice , swear , and do not insult. ” The general , again daunted by the superiority of the chief , hesitated a moment ; then advancing to the president ’ s desk , — “ What is the form , said he .
And pray what was this quarrel about ? ” “ These fellows were drunk , ” said Athos , “ and knowing there was a lady who had arrived at the cabaret this evening , they wanted to force her door. ” “ Force her door ! ” said the cardinal , “ and for what purpose ? ” “ To do her violence , without doubt , ” said Athos .
well , yes ; you have to know me yet .
It was an old soldier of the guards who could not see his king pass captive before him without rendering him this final homage .
He found Athos and Aramis philosophizing .
The officer opened the door , which was locked , and , without speaking a word , answered Dantès ’ question ; for he saw between the ranks of the soldiers a passage formed from the carriage to the port .
She wished to know when her lover would meet her a second night ; and poor Kitty , pale and trembling , awaited D ’ Artagnan ’ s reply .
Day came , the jailer entered .
“ And you are disposed to serve the cause of the people ? ” asked Gondy .
He supposes there is in the neighborhood of the house he has bought a mineral spring equal to those at Bagnères , Luchon , and Cauterets .
A most affectionate greeting , as one can well believe took place between him and Lord de Winter .
These things always come on us more severely when they come suddenly. ” “ Ah , _ma foi_ , under any circumstances ! ” said Caderousse , who drank as he spoke , and on whom the fumes of the wine began to take effect , — “ under any circumstances Fernand is not the only person put out by the fortunate arrival of Dantès ; is he , Danglars ? ” “ No , you are right—and I should say that would bring him ill-luck. ” “ Well , never mind , ” answered Caderousse , pouring out a glass of wine for Fernand , and filling his own for the eighth or ninth time , while Danglars had merely sipped his .
The two men smiled at each other , shook hands , and saluted his Eminence .
Teach Bazin prosody ; that will console him .
I am fond of grass and shade , ” said Monte Cristo .
Lord de Winter thought Athos was mad .
You were seated upon cushions in the Spanish fashion ; you wore a robe of green satin embroidered with gold and silver , hanging sleeves knotted upon your beautiful arms—those lovely arms—with large diamonds .
“ I pardon you , ” said he , “ the ill you have done me .
Undeceive yourself again ; either I am greatly mistaken , or she has provided against the catastrophe which threatens you , and , which will pass over without affecting her .
“ For you and your comrades. ” This greatness of spirit in a man who was quite destitute struck even Porthos ; and this French generosity , repeated by Lord de Winter and his friend , was highly applauded , except by MM .
The Departure for Belgium Chapter 98 .
In the meantime , the mousetrap continued in operation , and likewise D ’ Artagnan ’ s vigilance .
The guards were under arms , and D ’ Artagnan took his place in the midst of his comrades .
So dressed , he really appeared the first gentleman of his kingdom .
Richelieu slowly tore the paper which D ’ Artagnan had generously relinquished .
Oh , my brain whirls ; I no longer understand anything .
Really , count , you have a delightful way of setting people at their ease. ” “ Indeed , you give me more credit than I deserve ; I only wish to do what will be agreeable to you , that is all. ” “ When shall you send your invitations ? ” “ This very day. ” “ Well , I will immediately call on M. Danglars , and tell him that my mother and myself must leave Paris tomorrow .
“ At a few minutes to seven , ” returned the duke ( suiting the action to the words ) , “ I raise the crust of the pie ; I find in it two poniards , a ladder of rope , and a gag .
“ But not before one o ’ clock , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Oh , the heartless , treacherous scoundrels ! ” exclaimed Dantès , pressing his hand to his throbbing brows .
In whom can I trust ? ” “ Place confidence in me , madame ; do me that honor , my queen , and I will find a messenger. ” “ But I must write. ” “ Oh , yes ; that is indispensable .
Thank you , viscount , ” continued the prince , laughing , “ and I appoint you from this moment my interpreter. ” But the prisoner was not less unwilling to respond in Italian than in the other languages ; his aim was to elude the examination .
“ Perhaps Mazarin wishes to make a speculation in beer , as we did in straw , ” said Porthos .
The intelligent creature was received with loud applause .
At what hour does the examination take place ? ” “ At two o ’ clock. ” “ Send at twelve , ” said Danglars , smiling .
It was a name that too often resounded in her majesty ’ s ears and too often vibrated in her heart for Anne of Austria not to recognize it ; yet she remained impassive , looking at him with that fixed stare which is tolerated only in women who are queens , either by the power of beauty or by the right of birth .
“ De Winter took us to the house of a Spaniard , who , he said , had become naturalized as an Englishman by the guineas of his new compatriots .
At nine o ’ clock , then , be ready here at the hôtel , I will come and take you. ” Planchet seeing there was no longer any hope of making his master renounce his project , heaved a profound sigh and set to work to groom the third horse .
Now , the cabbage had not the slightest appearance of disease in the world , and the rabbit had not the smallest distrust ; yet , five minutes afterwards , the rabbit was dead .
“ Excuse me , sir , ” replied the notary ; “ on the contrary , the meaning of M. Noirtier is quite evident to me , and I can quite easily connect the train of ideas passing in his mind. ” “ You do not wish me to marry M. Franz d ’ Épinay ? ” observed Valentine .
“ Viscount , your countenance , your goodness and your courage incline me toward you ; my gratitude is already due .
Dantès asked to be removed from his present dungeon into another , even if it were darker and deeper , for a change , however disadvantageous , was still a change , and would afford him some amusement .
“ You can not , at least , deny that you are very harsh judges of each other. ” “ If we are so , it is because we generally judge under the influence of excitement .
Oh !
“ Thanks—thanks ; but , fortunately , I do not want for anything ; and it chances that at times there are others who have need of me. ” Dantès made a gesture .
Gentlemen , ” he said to his escort , “ withdraw .
The soldier replied that he was , and that he had given orders to be informed if the prisoner wished to speak to him .
“ As these ornaments were given by the king the minister persuaded his majesty to insist upon the queen ’ s appearing in them as part of her jewels at a ball which was soon to take place .
Are you disposed to obey Count de Rochefort ? ” “ I would follow him to hell , and that is saying not a little , as I believe him entirely capable of the descent. ” “ Bravo ! ” “ By what sign to-morrow shall we be able to distinguish friends from foes ? ” “ Every Frondist must put a knot of straw in his hat. ” “ Good !
Ten men for Monsieur de Comminges. ” As the carriage started off the cries were redoubled and more than ten thousand people thronged the Quai and overflowed the Pont Neuf and adjacent streets .
I can not stay here any longer. ” “ With all my heart ! ” replied Danglars , pleased to find the other so tractable .
“ Yes , the enemy .
At nine o ’ clock Madame la Première Présidente arrived .
He began by asking M. Bonacieux his name , age , condition , and abode .
Answer frankly. ” “ I ?
‘ I have an extraordinary means which I will not employ but in the last extremity to close your mouth , or at least to prevent anyone from believing a word you may utter. ’ “ I mustered all my strength to reply to him with a burst of laughter .
Her eyes , raised towards heaven , were watching a silvery cloud gliding over the azure , its form that of a shadow mounting towards heaven .
He crossed the sea and brought back the set of ornaments to the great queen , who was able to wear them on her shoulder on the appointed day ; and this very nearly ruined the minister .
Oliver Cromwell .
The same evening Andrea was incarcerated in the Conciergerie .
Notwithstanding that assurance , Morrel still hesitated .
“ Doubtless you wish to make me appear a very eccentric character .
It was then generally reported that Mademoiselle de Villefort , the heiress of the marquis and marchioness of Saint-Méran , had regained the good graces of her grandfather , and that she would ultimately be in possession of an income of 300,000 livres .
“ How did this happen ? ” said Morrel .
It seemed as though one immense blast of the wind had extinguished everyone .
Do you know Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” he added , looking steadfastly at the queen .
The guard obeyed .
“ Yes , but listen : this was not all .
“ Yes , ” said he at length , “ it is so .
I intrust to you certain papers which are at Blois ; and in two months and a half , if you do not hear of us , take possession of them .
The count is not ; and should we meet with one of your patrol we must defend ourselves. ” “ ’ Tis true. ” “ Where can we find another sword ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Sir , ” said Milady , “ is your presence an indispensable accessory of my captivity ?
And if ever I am reconciled with the court I shall prove to you , I hope , that I remain your friend , as well as that of—what the devil are their names—D ’ Artagnan and Porthos ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan and Porthos. ” “ Ah , yes .
D ’ Artagnan followed , but less nimbly , showing plainly that this mode of ascent was not one to which he was accustomed .
The house may be suspected ; but I deny that it is so in the part of it inhabited by Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , for I can affirm , sire , if I can believe what he says , that there does not exist a more devoted servant of your Majesty , or a more profound admirer of Monsieur the Cardinal. ” “ Was it not this D ’ Artagnan who wounded Jussac one day , in that unfortunate encounter which took place near the Convent of the Carmes-Déchaussés ? ” asked the king , looking at the cardinal , who colored with vexation .
“ Why , I meant to pass it over to you , my dear Athos. ” “ Me !
“ Well , after all , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ supposing that he lives , that he comes to Paris ; we have seen many other such .
But Athos , Porthos , and Aramis quickly appeared in their turn , and the moment the two Guardsmen attacked their young companion , drove them back .
“ I have confidence in the remedy I propose , and only ask you to permit me to assure you of its efficacy. ” “ Count , you prolong my agony. ” “ Then , ” said the count , “ your feeble spirit will not even grant me the trial I request ?
“ If a man had by unheard-of and excruciating tortures destroyed your father , your mother , your betrothed , —a being who , when torn from you , left a desolation , a wound that never closes , in your breast , —do you think the reparation that society gives you is sufficient when it interposes the knife of the guillotine between the base of the occiput and the trapezal muscles of the murderer , and allows him who has caused us years of moral sufferings to escape with a few moments of physical pain ? ” “ Yes , I know , ” said Franz , “ that human justice is insufficient to console us ; she can give blood in return for blood , that is all ; but you must demand from her only what it is in her power to grant. ” “ I will put another case to you , ” continued the count ; “ that where society , attacked by the death of a person , avenges death by death .
“ I say we have been here eighty-three hours. ” “ ’ Tis your fault , ” answered Porthos .
The queen on seeing him uttered a cry of surprise and asked him what was going on .
He was sent for by the ministers and he came before them pale and trembling , declaring that his son had very nearly been assassinated the day before , near the palace .
“ Good Lord ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , who , as we have often said , never stumbled at anything .
Villefort was about to retire , but M. de Blacas , taking his hand , restrained him .
Do you remember , Aramis , that it was here he received that famous bullet wound ? ” “ By my faith , ’ twould be excusable in him to tremble , ” replied Aramis , “ for even I feel a shudder at the recollection ; hold , just above that tree is the little spot where I thought I was killed. ” It was soon time for Grimaud to recall the past .
M. de Villefort , who examined him attentively , and who no doubt practiced upon him all the psychological studies he was accustomed to use , in vain endeavored to make him lower his eyes , notwithstanding the depth and profundity of his gaze .
Address yourself to M. Humann , section of the indirect contributions , corridor A. , No .
“ RICHELIEU ” The cardinal , after having read these two lines , sank into a profound reverie ; but he did not return the paper to D ’ Artagnan .
What , are you no longer in possession of your senses ?
“ It was for this she summoned you this morning and that she told you to return at five o ’ clock. ” “ Was it worth while to wish me to swear this morning that I would mention the appointment to no one ? ” muttered D ’ Artagnan .
“ Still , ” said Barrois , with the freedom and fidelity of an old servant , “ if M. Noirtier asks for a notary , I suppose he really wishes for a notary ; therefore I shall go at once and fetch one. ” Barrois acknowledged no master but Noirtier , and never allowed his desires in any way to be contradicted .
At length she felt his heart beat , a faint breath played upon his lips , a slight shudder , announcing the return of life , passed through the young man ’ s frame .
What else can a strapping chap of twenty-one mean with a fine wench of seventeen ? ” “ And you say that Dantès has gone to the Catalans ? ” “ He went before I came down. ” “ Let us go the same way ; we will stop at La Réserve , and we can drink a glass of La Malgue , whilst we wait for news. ” “ Come along , ” said Caderousse ; “ but you pay the score. ” “ Of course , ” replied Danglars ; and going quickly to the designated place , they called for a bottle of wine , and two glasses .
King , judges , spectators , all turned their eyes to the bench where the four friends were seated .
Monsieur de Beaufort placed it horizontally at the height of one foot .
“ 25th April , 1498 .
I have during ten years considered myself the agent of thy vengeance , and other wretches , like Morcerf , Danglars , Villefort , even Morcerf himself , must not imagine that chance has freed them from their enemy .
Chapter LXXVIII .
The astonishment of Mazarin and of Anne of Austria was great when it was announced to them that the city , which the previous evening they had left entirely tranquil , had awakened to such feverish commotion ; nor would either the one or the other believe the reports that were brought to them , declaring they would rather rely on the evidence of their own eyes and ears .
No , the sound of a bell , announcing a visitor , will but accelerate the resolution of one in Maximilian ’ s situation , and then the bell would be followed by a louder noise. ” Monte Cristo trembled from head to foot and as if his determination had been taken with the rapidity of lightning , he struck one of the panes of glass with his elbow ; the glass was shivered to atoms , then withdrawing the curtain he saw Morrel , who had been writing at his desk , bound from his seat at the noise of the broken window .
I recollect now ; it was a very serious charge. ” “ How so ? ” “ You know that when he left here he was taken to the Palais de Justice. ” “ Well ? ” “ I made my report to the authorities at Paris , and a week after he was carried off. ” “ Carried off ! ” said Morrel .
But go on , Beauchamp .
“ But , ” continued Aramis , “ the details escape me. ” “ And me also , ” said Porthos .
‘ Oh , my mother , it was you who said , “ You were free , you had a beloved father , you were destined to be almost a queen .
Nobody knows you .
And now , your excellency , ” he added , bowing his head , “ you know everything—you are my judge on earth , as the Almighty is in heaven ; have you for me no words of consolation ? ” “ My good friend , I can only repeat the words addressed to you by the Abbé Busoni .
It was in this pavilion , on the ground floor , that D ’ Artagnan and Porthos were confined , suffering interminable hours of imprisonment in a manner suitable to each different temperament .
“ Whom Pagans and unbelieving Gentiles call Duke of Buckingham , ” replied Milady .
Who ever heard of such an occurrence as this ? —a false telegraphic despatch—it is almost impossible for wrong signals to be made as they were in the last two telegrams .
Chapter LXXXV .
Parry had not quitted his master , and since his condemnation had not ceased to weep .
as to that , you must leave it to me. ” “ I give you absolute power , therefore ; take as large an escort as you like. ” D ’ Artagnan shook his head .
The valet entered .
“ And now , ” at last said the queen , “ now that we are alone , repeat your counsel , monsieur le coadjuteur. ” “ It is this , madame : that you should appear to have reflected , and publicly acknowledge an error , which constitutes the extra strength of a strong government ; release Broussel from prison and give him back to the people. ” “ Oh ! ” cried Anne , “ to humble myself thus !
We will take a bite and shall be there as soon as you are. ” “ Just as you please , gentlemen , provided we set sail , ” he said .
Doubtless , although less evident , Monte Cristo ’ s joy was not less intense .
These were pistols of an especial pattern , which Monte Cristo had had made for target practice in his own room .
I tell you that you know these things as well as I do , since this gentleman has forewarned you , both as a doctor and as a friend. ” “ Oh , you rave , sir , ” exclaimed Villefort , in vain endeavoring to escape the net in which he was taken .
Didn ’ t I say so ? ” cried Planchet .
Did you ever hear of such an idea ? ” Monte Cristo closed his eyes , and seemed again to experience all the sensations he had felt when the coarse canvas , yet moist with the cold dews of death , had touched his face .
That evening he had a long conference with several friends ; and M. Cavalcanti , who had remained in the drawing-room with the ladies , was the last to leave the banker ’ s house .
I shall stop and conceal myself a few leagues hence until my brother can rejoin me .
“ From the day on which the bandit had been saved by the two young peasants , he had been enamoured of Teresa , and had sworn she should be his .
Oh , I have been base , cowardly , I tell you ; I have abjured my affections , and like all renegades I am of evil omen to those who surround me ! ” “ No , Mercédès , ” said Monte Cristo , “ no ; you judge yourself with too much severity .
“ Wife , wife ! ” cried he in a hoarse voice , “ come here ! ” “ Diamond ! ” exclaimed La Carconte , rising and descending to the chamber with a tolerably firm step ; “ what diamond are you talking about ? ” “ Why , did you not hear all we said ? ” inquired Caderousse .
“ Stop ! ” he said , “ there he is at his post. ” Gondy looked at the spot indicated and perceived a beggar seated in a chair and leaning against one of the moldings ; a little basin was near him and he held a holy water brush in his hand .
D ’ Artagnan thought this was the moment to interfere .
And she fell on her knees , at the same time holding me up towards heaven , as if she desired , while praying to God in my behalf , to raise me actually to his presence. ” And for the second time Haydée stopped , overcome by such violent emotion that the perspiration stood upon her pale brow , and her stifled voice seemed hardly able to find utterance , so parched and dry were her throat and lips .
The obscurity augmented the acuteness of his hearing ; at the slightest sound he rose and hastened to the door , convinced they were about to liberate him , but the sound died away , and Dantès sank again into his seat .
Continue , and say what we must do now. ” “ Monsieur Laporte , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ finish dressing his majesty. ” “ We may go , then ? ” asked the queen .
we shall soon succeed in sending him to join his boon companions .
He reflected , smiled , and replied to me by a Sicilian proverb , which I believe is also a French proverb , ‘ My son , the world was not made in a day—but in seven .
I have had no occasion to notice him particularly ; he ’ s an old acquaintance .
No doubt she belongs to the same horrible race he does , and is , like himself , a dealer in magical arts .
On reaching home D ’ Artagnan found Kitty waiting for him .
“ Really , sir , ” he observed , “ I see that in spite of the reputation which you have acquired as a superior man , you look at everything from the material and vulgar view of society , beginning with man , and ending with man—that is to say , in the most restricted , most narrow view which it is possible for human understanding to embrace. ” “ Pray , sir , explain yourself , ” said Villefort , more and more astonished , “ I really do—not—understand you—perfectly. ” “ I say , sir , that with the eyes fixed on the social organization of nations , you see only the springs of the machine , and lose sight of the sublime workman who makes them act ; I say that you do not recognize before you and around you any but those office-holders whose commissions have been signed by a minister or king ; and that the men whom God has put above those office-holders , ministers , and kings , by giving them a mission to follow out , instead of a post to fill—I say that they escape your narrow , limited field of observation .
There are situations which the heart of a father or a mother can not be made to understand .
Felton , I dare not tell you at what idea I smiled ; you would hold me in horror— ” “ Go on !
You thought yourselves alone , and talked about that tragical death , and the fatality you mentioned then is the same which has caused the murder of Valentine. ” Villefort and d ’ Avrigny exchanged looks .
Would he not have accepted liberty without riches if it had been offered to him ?
I confess I have seen nothing but the fire ; let us hope you have found some gold among the ashes .
“ Oh , ” said Aramis , “ I always try to be prepared ; and then I knew you were seeking me. ” “ From whom ? ” “ From Master Bazin , to be sure ; he took you for the devil , my dear fellow , and hastened to warn me of the danger that threatened my soul if I should meet again a companion so wicked as an officer of musketeers. ” “ Oh , monsieur ! ” said Bazin , clasping his hands supplicatingly .
as Mademoiselle de Scudery remarks. ” Scarron and Raoul laughed .
In an instant , and as the moon broke from behind a cloud , they saw at a turning of the road two horsemen who , on perceiving them , stopped in their turn , appearing to deliberate whether they should continue their route or go back .
No more edicts , no more of the cardinal ’ s guards , no more De Jussacs , nor other bloodhounds .
I only repeat what I have been told , and like my informant I can do no more .
Long ago this mysterious colony quitted Spain , and settled on the tongue of land on which it is to this day .
Albert found in his anteroom two guns , with all the accoutrements for hunting ; a lofty room on the ground floor containing all the ingenious instruments the English—eminent in piscatory pursuits , since they are patient and sluggish—have invented for fishing .
“ What do you think of it , my little fellow ? ” said Caderousse .
Milady is fair , you say ? ” “ She has the most beautiful light hair imaginable ! ” “ Ah , my poor D ’ Artagnan ! ” said Athos .
The only sublime ideas in politics are those which bear fruit .
They went over a tolerably large ground floor ; a first floor consisted of a salon , a bathroom , and two bedrooms ; near one of the bedrooms they came to a winding staircase that led down to the garden .
“ Patience , madame , I am coming to it. ” “ That ’ s fortunate. ” “ In April you went to dine at the minister ’ s .
Athos lifted his finger , and Grimaud was silent .
She reflected likewise that the cardinal would be furious at her return , and consequently would be more disposed to listen to the complaints brought against her than to the accusations she brought against others .
Evidently he did not understand his meaning . )
Opposite the Tower of London he found the vessel that had been named to him , delivered his letter to the captain , who after having it examined by the governor of the port made immediate preparations to sail .
Bonacieux , who , convinced by what she had just said , saw nothing in this woman whom an instant before she had believed her rival but a sincere and devoted friend .
The matter was to ascertain , by reconnoitering , how the enemy guarded this bastion .
It had been D ’ Artagnan ’ s practice , ever since the riots , to sleep in the same room as Porthos , and on this eventful morning he was still there , sleeping , and dreaming that a yellow cloud had overspread the sky and was raining gold pieces into his hat , which he held out till it was overflowing with pistoles .
At the end of this time they had reached the thickest part of the forest .
D ’ Artagnan ! ” cried she , “ is it you ?
“ Well , it is impossible but that Master Aramis , that keen-scented bloodhound , and Athos , that wise and prudent nobleman , will discover our retreat .
He extended his hands , and drank greedily of the rainwater that had lodged in a hollow of the rock .
“ What do you require , then ? ” “ I require an order which would ratify beforehand all that I should think proper to do for the greatest good of France. ” “ But in the first place , this woman I have described must be found who is desirous of avenging herself upon the duke. ” “ She is found , ” said Milady .
The cardinal seated himself before his bureau and taking a sheet of paper wrote some lines upon it , whilst D ’ Artagnan stood imperturbable , without showing either impatience or curiosity .
He wore his elegant uniform , D ’ Artagnan was wrapped in a sort of gray cloak ; the Swiss was six feet high , D ’ Artagnan was hardly more than five ; the Swiss considered himself on his own ground and regarded D ’ Artagnan as an intruder .
Ten minutes after she pitched forward , then the other way , spun round and round , and then good-bye to the _Pharaon_ .
“ But I thought , ” he said , “ that your eminence knew that circumstance better than any one—— ” “ I ?
If , after having made me swallow twelve drops instead of ten , you see that I do not recover , then pour the rest down my throat .
“ It vexes me greatly , ” continued Athos , “ that you attach so much importance to these animals , for I am not yet at the end of my story. ” “ What else have you done. ” “ After having lost my own horse , nine against ten—see how near—I formed an idea of staking yours. ” “ Yes ; but you stopped at the idea , I hope ? ” “ No ; for I put it in execution that very minute. ” “ And the consequence ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , in great anxiety .
Planchet met them hard by the shed .
Three companies presented themselves , each offering equal securities .
It was the first billet he had received ; it was the first rendezvous that had been granted him .
Planchet slept in the antechamber upon a coverlet taken from the bed of D ’ Artagnan , and which D ’ Artagnan from that time made shift to do without .
Now victory has abandoned him .
“ Ah !
Albert left the cab in which he had come at the count ’ s door , intending to take a turn on foot .
“ Well , what shall you do with this money , count ?
Be easy , Kitty , there is something between that man and me that he is quite ignorant of : he nearly made me lose my credit with his Eminence .
Danglars comprehended the full extent of the wretched fate that overwhelmed Dantès ; and , when Napoleon returned to France , he , after the manner of mediocre minds , termed the coincidence , _a decree of Providence_ .
And in exchange for the sacrifice that you make , gentlemen , I promise—not to reward you , I believe that word would offend you—but to love you as a sister , to prefer you , next to my husband and my children , to every one .
I am come , sir , to ask your advice. ” “ Send directly to Blois , Raoul ; or , rather , take horse and ride immediately yourself. ” Raoul bowed .
“ ‘ Julie , ’ said he to her , ‘ Cocles has just given me the last rouleau of a hundred francs ; that completes the 250,000 francs we had fixed as the limits of our gains .
He even thought he could perceive something on the ground at a distance ; he ventured to call , and it seemed to him that the wind wafted back an almost inarticulate sigh .
Then they undressed him as they had done the first , laid him on their bed and bound him with the straps which composed the bed—the bedstead being of oak .
You would like one that sails as rapidly as—— ” “ Lightning , ” interrupted Mordaunt .
my young man , ” said D ’ Artagnan , drawing his sword , “ that is an order sooner given than executed .
“ And did you go alone ? ” asked Morrel , after he had read it .
He has been beaten .
“ Hullo , ” said Albert ; “ it is Monte Cristo and his Greek ! ” The strangers were , indeed , no other than the count and Haydée .
“ ’ Tis well ; order four men to conduct them to my lodging. ” Four men prepared to do so .
“ Ah , ah !
Pray don ’ t heed him , sir ! —he only barks , he never bites .
Well , Morrel , let us both examine the depths of your heart .
sir , what a cook must Monsieur Pierrefonds have , when he was so fond of eating and drinking , even whilst he was only called Monsieur Porthos ! ” “ Say no more ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ Teresa and Luigi reached the summit , and all at once found themselves in the presence of twenty bandits .
A short time before they reached the Baths of Caracalla the carriage stopped , Peppino opened the door , and the count and Franz alighted .
You have befouled the face of your king .
Athos is not a man to be thwarted ; he , like Porthos , has obliged his peasantry to call him ‘ my lord , ’ and to dignify his pettifogging place by the name of chateau .
“ Stuff and nonsense ; we have seen plenty of dead men in our time. ” Hearing these words , the two shadows blockaded the road and by the light of the stars might be seen the shining of their arms .
“ Ah , my dear fellow , ” said Albert , rising , and lighting his third cigar , “ really , I thought you had more courage. ” So saying , the two young men went down the staircase , and got into the carriage .
Then you took with your friends a journey to the waters of Forges ; they stopped on the road , but you continued yours .
yes , and to hang me. ” “ They shall not have the king. ” “ Nor hang me. ” “ Listen .
I will try and think over what is the best thing to be done ; you will give me your advice , will you not , and if possible extricate me from my unpleasant position ?
we have the first throw. ” “ Ha !
“ Oh , heavens , ” exclaimed Valentine , who was supporting the head of Morrel on her shoulder , “ do you not see how pale she is ?
By leaving this light on the right , he kept the Island of Tiboulen a little on the left ; by turning to the left , therefore , he would find it .
Meanwhile , Athos , in his concealment , waited in vain the signal to recommence his work .
You already know two of them , and you appeared to appreciate them like a judge .
At this moment Villefort returned .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ And how much will that cost me , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” “ Zounds , my lord , I don ’ t know yet .
I have come for nothing else but to tell you so. ” “ But what is the meaning of this change ? ” “ I can not tell you. ” “ Explain yourself. ” “ I can not explain myself. ” “ Come , tell me , what is the joke ? ” “ Monsieur le vicomte knows that I never joke. ” “ Yes , but I know also that Monsieur le Comte de la Fere arranged that you were to remain with me and that Olivain should return to Paris .
The opinion of all the commercial men was that , under the reverses which had successively weighed down Morrel , it was impossible for him to remain solvent .
I had an affianced husband , a man whom I loved , and who loved me—a heart like yours , Felton , a man like you .
This is no act of selfishness , but of delicacy .
But the queen pressed the child ’ s hand .
“ Touch me not ! ” said the executioner ; “ if this dagger is withdrawn I shall die. ” Grimaud remained with his hand extended ; then , striking his forehead , he exclaimed : “ Oh !
You are ill—shall I ring for assistance ? —shall I call ? ” “ No , ” said Villefort , rising hastily ; “ stay where you are .
The man was an enigma to Franz .
Besides , the wheels of a carriage , which appeared to have come from Paris , had made a deep impression in the soft earth , which did not extend beyond the pavilion , but turned again toward Paris .
But proceed , I beg of you .
Nothing , then , preventing my escape by this means , I examined the grounds .
He felt the need of making a trip in the Ile de France , and begged us—the Comte de la Fere and Monsieur du Vallon—to accompany him .
It was in the Rue des France-Bourgeois , close to La Force .
The same evening some friends of mine visited me , —M .
“ Yes , ” indicated the old man .
“ I , madame , ” replied he , “ follow Monsieur de la Fere wherever he leads , even were it on to death , without demanding wherefore ; but when it concerns your majesty ’ s service , then , ” added he , looking at the queen with all the grace of former days , “ I precede the count. ” “ Well , then , gentlemen , ” said the queen , “ since it is thus , and since you are willing to devote yourselves to the service of a poor princess whom the whole world has abandoned , this is what is required to be done for me .
“ Have you tied the knot ? ” inquired the first speaker .
“ Retire , Valentine , ” said she ; “ you are really suffering , and these ladies will excuse you ; drink a glass of pure water , it will restore you. ” Valentine kissed Eugénie , bowed to Madame Danglars , who had already risen to take her leave , and went out .
“ My lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , advancing toward the cardinal , “ it seems to me that your eminence is losing precious time .
But he recalled the promise he had made to Valentine , and kept his secret .
Quite contrary to the lot of Monsieur de Conti , unable to be cardinal , he was obliged to remain a soldier .
“ Where are we going ? ” inquired Aramis ; “ are we going to fight , perchance ?
“ I have not that honor , monseigneur , ” replied the latter , his eyes dazzled by the brilliant style in which D ’ Artagnan traveled .
so much the better ; but that it may prove laughter-worthy even to the end , let us not lose time. ” And he jumped off the wall .
The mask and beard became you very well , and as to the axe , I do not think it would be out of keeping even at this moment .
It was now nine o ’ clock .
It is a rich study for you , who , as I learn , have seen as many lands as are delineated on this map. ” “ Yes , sir , ” replied the count ; “ I have sought to make of the human race , taken in the mass , what you practice every day on individuals—a physiological study .
“ Are you not rather young , M. Andrea , to think of marrying ? ” “ I think not , sir , ” replied M. Cavalcanti ; “ in Italy the nobility generally marry young .
At ten minutes to eight Beauchamp arrived ; he had seen Château-Renaud , who had promised to be in the orchestra before the curtain was raised .
“ Interested man ! ” cried she , smiling .
Then along toward the fourth year came the expedition of Franche-Comte .
Well , this man .
Madame de Villefort must have experienced something of the sensation of a bird which , looking up , sees the murderous trap closing over its head .
Condé himself , whilst fighting for him , lost no opportunity of ridiculing , of humbling him .
“ I am , ” replied the latter , gravely .
We have hinted that by the side of these views of the leveling and simplifying minister , which belong to history , the chronicler is forced to recognize the lesser motives of the amorous man and jealous rival .
“ Haul up the cable and draw the boat to us , ” said Groslow .
“ The young peasant girl , at first timid and scared , soon recovered herself .
“ Upon my word , child ! ” exclaimed the angry marquise , “ your folly exceeds all bounds .
If you heard the cry of ‘ Mad dog ! ’ you would take your gun—you would unhesitatingly shoot the poor beast , who , after all , was only guilty of having been bitten by another dog .
After all , I am not an unreasonable man .
“ Stop , I want to remember his exact words .
he sees me in despair , and pretends he can not understand me ! ” “ You mistake—I understand you perfectly .
“ Oh , no , monsieur , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ I do not thus betray my enjoyments to the vulgar .
He , too , ten years ago , had piously sought out a tomb , and sought it vainly .
“ Well , ” said he , “ let us go to Valentine ; I will give instructions to everyone , and you , M. de Villefort , will yourself see that no one deviates from them. ” 40294m At the moment when d ’ Avrigny was returning to Valentine ’ s room , accompanied by Villefort , an Italian priest , of serious demeanor and calm and firm tone , hired for his use the house adjoining the hotel of M. de Villefort .
“ Do as you did before , only do not wait so long , all the springs of life are now exhausted in me , and death , ” he continued , looking at his paralyzed arm and leg , “ has but half its work to do .
Carmela was attired like a woman of Sonnino .
As for Franz , he remained at Florence , and after having passed a few days in exploring the paradise of the Cascine , and spending two or three evenings at the houses of the Florentine nobility , he took a fancy into his head ( having already visited Corsica , the cradle of Bonaparte ) to visit Elba , the waiting-place of Napoleon .
then we shall pay the more , that ’ s all , I see plainly enough .
“ Well , then ? ” asked Athos , in a low tone .
The only way of doing that was to cause the disappearance of the London executioner .
On the staircase he met Signor Pastrini .
It was never without a nervous shudder , since the dinner at Auteuil , and the events which followed it , that Madame Danglars heard Monte Cristo ’ s name announced .
“ Suppose the queen should refuse to ratify it ? ” “ Ah !
He was the same man , or rather the development of the same man , whom we have heretofore seen as assistant attorney at Marseilles .
Well , I have not intercepted your confidence , and yet I know all that as well as you , and I have no conscientious scruples .
As to D ’ Artagnan , scarcely , on his side , was he out of sight when he drew from his pocket a letter , which he read over again : “ Return immediately to Paris.—J .
Fortunately , deceived by D ’ Artagnan ’ s trick , they neglected to reload their guns .
Captain Gaumard , recovered from his illness , had returned from Palma .
Let each take seventy-five ; that is enough to take us to London and back .
The count opened the letter , and read : “ ‘ M .
Mme .
quick ! ” returned the abbé , “ listen to what I have to say. ” Dantès looked in fear and wonder at the livid countenance of Faria , whose eyes , already dull and sunken , were surrounded by purple circles , while his lips were white as those of a corpse , and his very hair seemed to stand on end .
“ I then swore that this woman who had ruined him , who was more than his accomplice , since she had urged him to the crime , should at least share his punishment .
Ah , this visit was expected .
Aramis alighted and clapped his hands three times .
For the rest , if any one of you have further or better counsel to expound , I will listen to him with the greatest pleasure. ” Three curates remained—those of St. Merri , St. Sulpice and St. Eustache .
“ Well , so much the better ; for in that case I shall demand of his Majesty permission to plead for him. ” The king feared an outbreak .
None of this had escaped the count , and even by this mere contact of individuals the scene had already acquired considerable interest for an observer .
Noirtier continued to look at the same object , but suddenly his glance was transferred from the wife to the husband , and Villefort himself had to submit to the searching investigation of eyes , which , while changing their direction and even their language , had lost none of their menacing expression .
The Dinner Chapter 64 .
“ True , I forgot ; provided he can get money out of the people , that is all he wants. ” The street of Saint Honore , when the cardinal and his party passed through it , was crowded by an assemblage who , standing in groups , discussed the edicts of that memorable day .
it is his son ! ” D ’ Artagnan ’ s arm dropped to his side .
I received orders to go and take charge of you on the sea , and to conduct you to this castle .
To whom was this letter addressed ? ” “ To M. Noirtier , Rue Coq-Héron , No .
I held back his arm .
What man is that ? ” cried Milady , suffocated by terror , her hair loosening itself , and rising above her livid countenance as if alive .
But now her position in life is assured , ” continued Caderousse ; “ no doubt fortune and honors have comforted her ; she is rich , a countess , and yet—— ” Caderousse paused .
I would make your fortune. ” “ How ?
Alas , you , who would have been such a powerful protector to me in the days of your health and strength , can now only sympathize in my joys and sorrows , without being able to take any active part in them .
He wouldn ’ t listen , put his foot on the spur to get down , the spur broke , he fell with a broken leg , and , instead of keeping quiet , took to crying out like a gallows-bird .
Ten minutes elapsed , during which D ’ Artagnan made every effort to read through the first envelope what was written on the second .
It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life .
With this design he had engaged a box in the most conspicuous part of the theatre , and exerted himself to set off his personal attractions by the aid of the most rich and elaborate toilet .
There were then , as now , a crowd of young and pretty women who came to St .
This last reason appeared convincing .
That great giant who was there gave it to him. ” “ In that case , ” said Bazin , “ he must be pretty sick. ” “ So sick that he is dying , and he wants to confess to the coadjutor , who , they say , has power to remit great sins. ” “ And does he imagine that the coadjutor will put himself out for him ? ” “ To be sure ; the coadjutor has promised. ” “ Who told you that ? ” “ Monsieur Maillard himself. ” “ You have seen him , then ? ” “ Certainly ; I was there when he fell. ” “ What were you doing there ? ” “ I was shouting , ‘ Down with Mazarin ! ’ ‘ Death to the cardinal ! ’ ‘ The Italian to the gallows ! ’ Isn ’ t that what you would have me shout ? ” “ Be quiet , you rascal ! ” said Bazin , looking uneasily around .
Milady Clarik received D ’ Artagnan ceremoniously .
“ In fact , I have rarely seen such excess of impudence. ” “ Your majesty , on your side , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ is as much mistaken as to our intentions as the Cardinal Mazarin has always been. ” “ You are in error , sir , ” answered the queen .
“ Yes , sir. ” “ You have not been long detained. ” “ No .
The two friends did not venture to return the count the breakfast he had given them ; it would have been too absurd to offer him in exchange for his excellent table the very inferior one of Signor Pastrini .
So , once more , good-night. ’ Caderousse followed him slowly to the threshold .
Yes , you are at once from Provence and Spain ; that explains , if the portrait you showed me be like , the dark hue I so much admired on the visage of the noble Catalan. ” It would have required the penetration of Œdipus or the Sphinx to have divined the irony the count concealed beneath these words , apparently uttered with the greatest politeness .
And I really don ’ t know what prevents me from exterminating you all. ” “ Alas , monseigneur , we were not in the plot , as you will soon see .
Having arrived before the Pont du Gard , the horse stopped , but whether for his own pleasure or that of his rider would have been difficult to say .
The room was inundated with blood , dripping from the mattresses upon which lay the wounded man , speechless ; the monk had disappeared .
Come , and I will explain to you. ” And with a firm step Morrel went up to his study , while Maximilian followed him , trembling as he went .
I doubt not you will consider these praises the result of blind maternal affection , but there is a soul of iron in that delicate , fragile body .
Then I should become simply No .
Paris for two hours past had been dark , and seemed a desert .
“ You are not an enemy of our holy faith ? ” said she , hesitatingly .
The young man cast a glance at the first musket and saw , with a certain degree of inquietude , that it was leveled in his direction ; but as soon as he perceived that the orifice of the barrel was motionless , he threw himself upon the ground .
The unfortunate youth was intrepid in the attack , and rude in the defence .
Chapter XX .
“ Swear to be mute. ” “ I never swear , my lord , I say yes or no ; and , as I am a gentleman , I keep my word. ” “ Come , then , I see that I must trust unreservedly to you. ” “ Believe me , my lord , it will be your best plan. ” “ Come , ” said Mazarin , conducting D ’ Artagnan into the queen ’ s oratory and desiring him to wait there .
The Marquis de Saint-Méran , I think , the concierge said .
But when once they passed the line of circumvallation and found themselves in the open plain , D ’ Artagnan , who was completely ignorant of what was going forward , thought it was time to demand an explanation .
This was already half an hour past the time Valentine had fixed .
His hat was a little napless , his feather was a little faded , his gold lace was a little tarnished , his laces were a trifle frayed ; but in the obscurity of the church these things were not seen , and Porthos was still the handsome Porthos .
Hold !
Aramis and D ’ Artagnan whispered to each other .
“ Now , ” hastily interrupted the Jesuit , on seeing that his acolyte was going astray , “ now your thesis would please the ladies ; it would have the success of one of Monsieur Patru ’ s pleadings. ” “ Please God ! ” cried Aramis , transported .
“ ‘ There , ’ said Caderousse ; ‘ and now , although you have wronged us of perhaps 10,000 francs , will you have your supper with us ?
“ No doubt , ” said Aramis , “ but it is far from here to the enemy. ” “ Sir , the distance will be diminished , ” said a subordinate .
In the meantime , follow me. ” The cardinal alighted ; the three Musketeers did likewise .
He bowed with great friendship to the count .
The interview for which I ask is of us two alone , and I very earnestly wish that it may not be interrupted. ” “ I am not at home to any one , ” said the Duchess de Chevreuse to the footman .
“ Once , sir , when I was grafting a rose-tree. ” “ Well , suppose you were to alter a signal , and substitute another ? ” “ Ah , that is another case ; I should be turned off , and lose my pension. ” “ Three hundred francs ? ” “ A hundred crowns , yes , sir ; so you see that I am not likely to do any of these things. ” “ Not even for fifteen years ’ wages ?
Then obeying the orders given him by Athos , he headed the small procession , bearing the torch in one hand and the musket in the other , until it reached De Winter ’ s inn , when pounding on the portal with his fist , he bowed to my lord and faced about without a word .
“ Yes , sir. ” “ And it was a fierce one ? ” “ His highness the prince charged eleven times in person. ” “ He is a great commander , Bragelonne. ” “ He is a hero , sir .
“ Hear me , Maximilian , ” said his father .
What subject of meditation could present itself to the banker , so fortunately become bankrupt ?
It was then that he encountered for the first time Villefort ’ s look , —that look peculiar to the magistrate , who , while seeming to read the thoughts of others , betrays nothing of his own .
Accept my acknowledgments for the example you have set me , and which I intend following .
“ But you expected some one then ? ” asked the officer .
“ Ah , ha , ” said Albert , “ I see you were preparing for a game of cards. ” “ No , ” said the count , “ I was making a suit. ” “ How ? ” said Albert .
“ Take care , you are going to immure a traveller , Sinbad the Sailor , a man who comes to see Paris ; you are going to make a patriarch of him. ” 20255m “ Oh , no , ” said Morrel ; “ my sister is five-and-twenty , my brother-in-law is thirty , they are gay , young , and happy .
“ The result , then , of six more such months as this would be to reduce the third-rate house to despair. ” “ Oh , ” said Danglars , becoming very pale , how you are running on ! ” “ Let us imagine seven such months , ” continued Monte Cristo , in the same tone .
Athos and Aramis again questioned Planchet , but he had seen nothing of D ’ Artagnan ; they wished to take Planchet with them , but he could not leave his troop , who at five o ’ clock returned home , saying that they were returning from the battle , whereas they had never lost sight of the bronze equestrian statue of Louis XIII .
“ And now , ” said La Ramee , “ I must ask your highness ’ s pardon , but it seems that Monsieur de Chavigny is to be away for a few days and he has sent me word that he has certain directions to give me before his departure. ” The duke tried to exchange a glance with Grimaud , but there was no glance in Grimaud ’ s eyes .
“ Well , ” said he , “ let her come , with your consent and that of the baron , and we will try and give her an engagement , though we are very poor to pay such talent as hers. ” “ Go , Cornélie , ” said Madame Danglars , “ I do not require you any longer. ” Cornélie obeyed , and the next minute Madame Danglars left her room in a charming loose dress , and came and sat down close to Debray .
Aramis reflected for a minute , and then said , coloring , “ Will it be really rendering you a service , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ I shall be grateful to you all my life. ” “ Very well .
The cardinal sets a spy upon a gentleman , has his letters stolen from him by means of a traitor , a brigand , a rascal—has , with the help of this spy and thanks to this correspondence , Chalais ’ s throat cut , under the stupid pretext that he wanted to kill the king and marry Monsieur to the queen !
“ He still lives. ” “ Are you quite sure of it ? ” “ I am he. ” There was a moment of cold silence , during which everyone was affected according to his nature .
I have ordered Masses for myself , and for you , gentlemen , which will be said , gentlemen , for which I have not the least doubt you will be marvelously benefited. ” “ And I , ” said Porthos , “ do you think my strain cost me nothing ? —without reckoning Mousqueton ’ s wound , for which I had to have the surgeon twice a day , and who charged me double on account of that foolish Mousqueton having allowed himself a ball in a part which people generally only show to an apothecary ; so I advised him to try never to get wounded there any more. ” “ Ay , ay ! ” said Athos , exchanging a smile with D ’ Artagnan and Aramis , “ it is very clear you acted nobly with regard to the poor lad ; that is like a good master. ” “ In short , ” said Porthos , “ when all my expenses are paid , I shall have , at most , thirty crowns left. ” “ And I about ten pistoles , ” said Aramis .
He knows her brother-in-law .
“ Yes , there are two hundred of them , and each of them will need two , which will make four hundred. ” “ But four hundred what ? ” “ Listen ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The thunder growled in the distance ; but it was apparently not heard by the jeweller , Caderousse , or La Carconte , absorbed as they were all three with the demon of gain .
this is frightful !
“ And knowing that real name , my Lord , ” replied Felton , “ will you sign it all the same ? ” “ Doubtless , ” said Buckingham , “ and rather twice than once. ” “ I can not believe , ” continued Felton , in a voice that became more sharp and rough , “ that your Grace knows that it is to Milady de Winter this relates. ” “ I know it perfectly , although I am astonished that you know it. ” “ And will your Grace sign that order without remorse ? ” Buckingham looked at the young man haughtily .
“ Yes ; I think so , at least , ” said the young girl hesitatingly .
how you manoeuvre my instructions , count !
I ?
But I thought you were a Catalan , and they told me the Catalans were not men to allow themselves to be supplanted by a rival .
You were walking one day behind the Chartreux , when it would have been better if you had been elsewhere .
The valet threw into the carriage his military cloak , in which two swords were wrapped , and , shutting the door , he took his seat by the side of the coachman .
“ But as if to contradict his statement , at that instant a violent clap of thunder seemed to shake the house to its very foundation , while a sudden gust of wind , mingled with rain , extinguished the lamp he held in his hand .
D ’ Artagnan began by making his most splendid toilet , then returned to Athos ’ s , and according to custom , related everything to him .
“ Surely , ” answered Danglars , “ one can not be held responsible for every chance arrow shot into the air. ” “ You can , indeed , when the arrow lights point downward on somebody ’ s head. ” Meantime the subject of the arrest was being canvassed in every different form .
Her face , as she looked at Athos , had taken on an expression that can not be described .
28 , Rue de la Fontaine , in a room hung with red damask ; my father took me in his arms , telling my mother I was dead , wrapped me in a napkin marked with an H and an N , and carried me into a garden , where he buried me alive. ” A shudder ran through the assembly when they saw that the confidence of the prisoner increased in proportion to the terror of M. de Villefort .
Did not the messenger say your father ’ s safety depended upon it ? ” “ But what danger threatens him , then , Emmanuel ? ” she asked .
Having aroused the enmity of the Sultan , he was proscribed and put to death by treachery in 1822 , at the age of eighty.—Ed .
“ Did not you sentimentally inform me with that pretty mouth of yours , so cruel to me today , that you came to England solely for the pleasure of seeing me at your ease , an enjoyment of which you told me you so sensibly felt the deprivation that you had risked everything for it—seasickness , tempest , captivity ?
Impossible ! ” said Château-Renaud ; “ only ten days after the flight of her daughter , and three days from the bankruptcy of her husband ? ” Debray colored slightly , and followed with his eyes the direction of Beauchamp ’ s glance .
“ Gentlemen , ” said Athos , addressing at the same time his companions and their adversaries , “ are we ready ? ” “ Yes ! ” answered the Englishmen and the Frenchmen , as with one voice .
But the excitement had calmed down , and they felt themselves obliged to descend from dreams to reality ; after having exhausted the ideal , they found they must talk of the actual .
He went up to him , but , to his extreme astonishment , the stranger first addressed him .
However , Jacopo insisted on following him , and Dantès did not oppose this , fearing if he did so that he might incur distrust .
Nevertheless , the calm religious dignity of his countenance abashed Mordaunt .
Well !
He was , if I recollect , arrested in a tavern , in company with a great many others. ” Then he added , “ Monsieur , you may rest assured I shall perform my duty impartially , and that if he be innocent you shall not have appealed to me in vain ; should he , however , be guilty , in this present epoch , impunity would furnish a dangerous example , and I must do my duty. ” 0097m As he had now arrived at the door of his own house , which adjoined the Palais de Justice , he entered , after having , coldly saluted the shipowner , who stood , as if petrified , on the spot where Villefort had left him .
This boat contained an officer , a mate , and eight rowers .
This man goes to give his last orders ; take the least thing , drink a finger of wine , and let us be gone. ” “ Yes , ” said Mme .
“ I take them , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ for myself .
It would be very kind of you. ” “ No ; I have come to speak to you of a very serious matter. ” “ A serious matter , ” said the count , looking at Franz with the earnestness usual to him ; “ and what may it be ? ” “ Are we alone ? ” “ Yes , ” replied the count , going to the door , and returning .
How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice Chapter 62 .
I still had a loaded pistol and you were in full fight , sword in hand. ” “ Yes , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but what if this rendezvous had some hidden purpose ? ” “ Oh ! ” said Porthos , “ you can ’ t think that , D ’ Artagnan ! ” D ’ Artagnan did not believe Athos to be capable of a deception , but he sought an excuse for not going to the rendezvous .
Ten minutes passed thus , and he was convinced that no one was watching him .
“ Fifty thousand francs ! ” muttered La Carconte when left alone ; “ it is a large sum of money , but it is not a fortune. ” VOLUME TWO 20009m 20011m 20019m Chapter 28 .
No one ever asked her where she was going .
Alas , I would say you are welcome , had not death opened the way for you into this house. ” “ Valentine , ” said Morrel with a trembling voice , “ I had waited since half-past eight , and did not see you come ; I became uneasy , leaped the wall , found my way through the garden , when voices conversing about the fatal event—— ” “ What voices ? ” asked Valentine .
“ Oh , pray do , for heaven ’ s sake , tell us all about—is he a vampire , or a resuscitated corpse , or what ? ” “ I fancy I have seen him before ; and I even think he recognizes me. ” “ And I can well understand , ” said the countess , shrugging up her beautiful shoulders , as though an involuntary shudder passed through her veins , “ that those who have once seen that man will never be likely to forget him. ” The sensation experienced by Franz was evidently not peculiar to himself ; another , and wholly uninterested person , felt the same unaccountable awe and misgiving .
“ Silence , ” said Felton , “ I hear footsteps. ” “ We are discovered ! ” There was a silence of several seconds .
It may be remembered that he had the saddle which came from Buckingham .
Be philosophers , as I am , gentlemen ; sit down at the table and let us drink .
He had his foot upon it , that is all ; and I thought from having his foot upon it the handkerchief was his. ” “ And you were deceived , my dear sir , ” replied Aramis , coldly , very little sensible to the reparation .
Possessed by one single thought—that of the promise he had made , and of the responsibility he had taken—he retired last to his chamber , begged the host to procure him a map of the province , bent over it , examined every line traced upon it , perceived that there were four different roads from Béthune to Armentières , and summoned the lackeys .
Milady seemed overcome with joy , and made Kitty repeat the smallest details of the pretended interview of the _soubrette_ with De Wardes when he received the letter ; how he had responded ; what was the expression of his face ; if he seemed very amorous .
During this time , Edmond , seated on his bed with his head in his hands , tried to collect his scattered thoughts .
What jealousy ; to tear such clothes ! ” “ He looks like a big-bug , ” said another ; “ dresses in fine style .
Nine days after leaving the Charente , pale with fatigue and vexation , Milady saw only the blue coasts of Finisterre appear .
We are no longer in the Middle Ages ; there is no longer a Vehmgericht , or Free Tribunals ; what do you want to ask these people ?
This anxiety became so great that it even extended to Aramis and Porthos .
His hand of iron grasped , quick as lightning , firm as a pair of blacksmith ’ s pincers , the soldier ’ s throat .
He is in a very picturesque place—do you know the catacombs of St. Sebastian ? ” “ I was never in them ; but I have often resolved to visit them. ” “ Well , here is an opportunity made to your hand , and it would be difficult to contrive a better .
He knows how , as you must have observed , to obey an order—for you did not , I am sure , come from Portsmouth hither without endeavoring to make him speak .
“ Then , ” said Albert , “ you became the property of this man ? ” 40080m “ No , ” replied Haydée , “ he did not dare to keep us , so we were sold to some slave-merchants who were going to Constantinople .
They stopped him at the door .
“ Only this time it was no longer an inert body , without feeling , that the villain had to deal with .
“ Whom do you bring ? ” asked the young girl in Romaic , of Monte Cristo ; “ is it a friend , a brother , a simple acquaintance , or an enemy. ” “ A friend , ” said Monte Cristo in the same language .
I beg you to excuse me and propose to the chevalier. ” And Athos , bowing , retired and remained leaning against the mantelpiece , a spectator of the scene .
“ Who goes there ?
“ Who is that man ? ” he asked .
He wished to subdue this woman in his own name ; and as this vengeance appeared to him to have a certain sweetness in it , he could not make up his mind to renounce it .
Listen , then .
Leave all to me ; and tomorrow , when you awake , you shall find a collection of costumes with which you will be satisfied. ” “ My dear Albert , ” said Franz , “ leave all to our host ; he has already proved himself full of resources ; let us dine quietly , and afterwards go and see _l ’ Italienne à Alger ! _ “ Agreed , ” returned Albert ; “ but remember , Signor Pastrini , that both my friend and myself attach the greatest importance to having tomorrow the costumes we have asked for. ” The host again assured them they might rely on him , and that their wishes should be attended to ; upon which Franz and Albert mounted to their apartments , and proceeded to disencumber themselves of their costumes .
a dripping pan immediately , that I may not lose a drop of the fat of this estimable bird. ” “ You was right , ” said the Swiss ; “ goose grease is kood with basdry. ” “ There ! ” said the dragoon .
The count is fond of travelling , and , being rich , possesses a vessel of his own .
La Ramee carried off all his clothes , in order to be certain that the duke would not stir .
Dragoons , Swiss , Guardsmen , Musketeers , light-horsemen , succeeded one another with a rapidity which might answer the purpose of the host very well , but agreed badly with the views of the four friends .
I tell you the queen does not love me ; I tell you she loves another ; I tell you she loves that infamous Buckingham !
do you know that he holds terrestrial beings under his control ?
“ Hallo ! ” continued Caderousse , half-rising , and with his fist on the table , “ hallo , Edmond !
And of what malady ? ” “ It is feared that it may be the smallpox , sir , ” replied Porthos , desirous of taking his turn in the conversation ; “ and what is serious is that it will certainly spoil his face. ” “ The smallpox !
Do you not think that I also long for forgetfulness ?
It was only a momentary glance , but it seemed to the countess to have lasted for a century , so much was expressed in that one look .
The court made songs on the Parisians and the Parisians on the court ; and the casualties , though not mortal , were painful , as are all wounds inflicted by the weapon of ridicule .
but what ’ s going on in the city yonder ? ” said Athos .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , “ this is a serious business and my heart bleeds as if you had pierced it through and through .
On my word , I almost regret that in all probability this miserable Peppino will not be beheaded , as you might have had an opportunity then of seeing how short a time the punishment lasts , and whether it is worth even mentioning ; but , really this is a most singular conversation for the Carnival , gentlemen ; how did it arise ?
“ See , count , ” she said , with a smile so sad in its expression that one could almost detect the tears on her eyelids— “ see , our French grapes are not to be compared , I know , with yours of Sicily and Cyprus , but you will make allowance for our northern sun. ” The count bowed , but stepped back .
They believe me her accomplice , and will punish me with her .
“ ‘ I say that the diamond is real , and that this gentleman , one of the first jewellers of Paris , will give us 50,000 francs for it .
Ah , you fellows are good managers !
Morrel was kinder to his wife , more affectionate to his daughter , than he had ever been .
Bonacieux , placing her hand upon her bosom , “ my heart beats so I can not walk. ” “ Courage , courage !
The aperture was finished and Athos passed through it , carrying the clothes destined for the king wrapped in black cloth , and the tools with which he was to open a communication with the king ’ s room .
What do you say to that ? ” “ I might answer , sire , that he is too deeply interested in the question to be a very impartial witness ; but so far from that , sire , I know the duke to be a royal gentleman , and I refer the matter to him—but upon one condition , sire. ” “ What ? ” “ It is that your Majesty will make him come here , will interrogate him yourself , _tête-à-tête_ , without witnesses , and that I shall see your Majesty as soon as you have seen the duke. ” “ What , then !
If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement , you must obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation , the manager of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark .
D ’ Artagnan raised himself on tiptoe , and as the carriage passed , saw Harrison at one window and Mordaunt at the other .
“ You seem secretly elated. ” “ Yes , Giulio , ” she said , “ proud and happy ; for I have found the means of strangling this hydra. ” “ You are a great politician , my queen , ” said Mazarin ; “ let us hear the means. ” And he hid what he had written by sliding the letter under a folio of blank paper .
The young girl hastily took the letter from him .
Cahusac immediately ran to the Guardsman whom Aramis had killed , seized his rapier , and returned toward D ’ Artagnan ; but on his way he met Athos , who during his relief which D ’ Artagnan had procured him had recovered his breath , and who , for fear that D ’ Artagnan would kill his enemy , wished to resume the fight .
Mordaunt was among these .
Speak , if you please , ” said Mazarin .
“ There are only fifteen feet more from the top down here , and the grass is soft. ” The duke had already begun to descend .
“ Come , come , ” said the young man , “ a glass of wine , father , will revive you .
Without having been in the school of the Abbé Faria , the worthy master of _La Jeune Amélie_ ( the name of the Genoese tartan ) knew a smattering of all the tongues spoken on the shores of that large lake called the Mediterranean , from the Arabic to the Provençal , and this , while it spared him interpreters , persons always troublesome and frequently indiscreet , gave him great facilities of communication , either with the vessels he met at sea , with the small boats sailing along the coast , or with the people without name , country , or occupation , who are always seen on the quays of seaports , and who live by hidden and mysterious means which we must suppose to be a direct gift of Providence , as they have no visible means of support .
How can it be effected ? ” “ Someone must be sent to the duke. ” “ But who , who ?
“ She revives ! ” cried the young man .
My senses fail me amid such a chaos of iniquities .
In short , up to this period nothing had been wanting to Tréville but opportunity ; but he was ever on the watch for it , and he faithfully promised himself that he would not fail to seize it by its three hairs whenever it came within reach of his hand .
Fernand sought and obtained leave to go and serve in Greece , still having his name kept on the army roll .
His disposition ( always inclined to exact concessions rather than to make them ) kept him aloof from all friendships .
On his wife ’ s request , M. de Villefort was the first to give the signal of departure .
“ Go and tell Lord de Winter that his prisoner has fainted—for this event not having been foreseen , I don ’ t know what to do. ” The soldier went out to obey the orders of his officer .
But you need not fear .
M. de Villefort passed on to his own room .
“ Yes , frankly and loyally , ” replied the cardinal , in the same tone .
There he is , attending mass , in the chapel of the Virgin. ” D ’ Artagnan nearly jumped for joy ; he had despaired of finding Bazin , but now , he thought , since he held one end of the thread he would be pretty sure to reach the other end .
By adding all that he heard from the mouth of the young man to his own remembrances , he was enabled to form a pretty exact idea of a position of the seriousness of which , for the rest , the queen ’ s letter , short but explicit , gave him the clue .
Then they saw from the other bank the executioner raise both his arms slowly ; a moonbeam fell upon the blade of the large sword .
“ Athos ? ” said she ; “ wait a moment. ” And she placed her hands on her brow , as if to force the fugitive ideas it contained to concentration in a moment .
Now , they will be far from looking for us among the Puritans ; therefore , with the Puritans we must go. ” “ Good , my friend , good ! ” said Athos .
The catalogue alone of the books we read with this object would fill a whole chapter , which , although it might be very instructive , would certainly afford our readers but little amusement .
I never had one !
I heard you cry out , without understanding what you said .
“ I hear you gentlemen of the Guards have been in the trenches tonight , and that you did not get much the best of the Rochellais. ” D ’ Artagnan looked at Athos to know if he ought to reply to this intruder who thus mixed unasked in their conversation .
how strong one feels here ! ” said Porthos , almost burying his large feet in the sands .
On arriving at the Rue Saint Denis , the friends found a vast concourse of people .
“ I like to hear him talk , ” said Athos ; “ his dialect amuses me. ” “ Gentlemen , ” cried Aramis , “ listen to this. ” “ Listen to Aramis , ” said his three friends .
“ But , tell me , ” said Andrea , “ am I to remain bareheaded ? ” “ Pooh , ” said Caderousse ; “ it is so windy that your hat can easily appear to have blown off. ” “ Come , come ; enough of this , ” said Cavalcanti .
There was no family , no servant ; the tall man alone inhabited this house .
At the last hour we must confess this action and God knows better than we can whether it is a crime , a fault , or a meritorious deed .
And you ? ” “ I am going a few steps farther. ” “ And Monsieur leaves me here alone ? ” “ You are afraid , Planchet ? ” “ No ; I only beg leave to observe to Monsieur that the night will be very cold , that chills bring on rheumatism , and that a lackey who has the rheumatism makes but a poor servant , particularly to a master as active as Monsieur. ” “ Well , if you are cold , Planchet , you can go into one of those cabarets that you see yonder , and be in waiting for me at the door by six o ’ clock in the morning. ” “ Monsieur , I have eaten and drunk respectfully the crown you gave me this morning , so that I have not a sou left in case I should be cold. ” “ Here ’ s half a pistole .
At the first words of the Count de Guiche , the prince , having in mind the direction whence came the sound of cannon , had understood everything .
The moon had just then escaped from behind the cloud which had concealed it , and Morrel saw Villefort come out upon the steps , followed by a gentleman in black .
No ; I will go down , seize the man unawares and bring him to you ready gagged. ” “ That is better , ” said the Gascon .
At this sound , as he was already partially exposed to view , he stepped back and concealed himself completely , remaining perfectly motionless .
Do you wish me , for instance , to give information to the procureur ? ” Monte Cristo uttered the last words with so much meaning that Morrel , starting up , cried out : “ You know of whom I speak , count , do you not ? ” “ Perfectly well , my good friend ; and I will prove it to you by putting the dots to the _i_ , or rather by naming the persons .
Be assured that I am devoted to both these all-powerful masters , and that my earnest endeavors have no other aim than the service of the king , and also the cardinal—one of the most illustrious geniuses that France has ever produced .
Beware !
The Third Attack Now that this treasure , which had so long been the object of the abbé ’ s meditations , could insure the future happiness of him whom Faria really loved as a son , it had doubled its value in his eyes , and every day he expatiated on the amount , explaining to Dantès all the good which , with thirteen or fourteen millions of francs , a man could do in these days to his friends ; and then Dantès ’ countenance became gloomy , for the oath of vengeance he had taken recurred to his memory , and he reflected how much ill , in these times , a man with thirteen or fourteen millions could do to his enemies .
Excuse my not coming to meet you ; but , ” added he , looking at D ’ Artagnan with a certain degree of uneasiness , “ you know what has happened to me ? ” “ No. ” “ Has the host told you nothing , then ? ” “ I asked after you , and came up as soon as I could. ” Porthos seemed to breathe more freely .
As to Felton , he hesitates .
“ Ah , here is a private staircase , ” said the count ; “ that is convenient .
At five o ’ clock precisely , the count arrived before the house at Auteuil , followed by Ali .
the king ! ” cried out several voices , deceived by the blue ribbon and chestnut horse of Winter ; “ take him alive. ” “ No !
Chapter 69 .
“ So ! ” thought the Gascon “ here ’ s a young blade who has already his love affair , who doesn ’ t at all agree with Athos in his hatred to the fair sex .
D ’ Artagnan , who , as we have said , was exceedingly prudent for a young man of twenty , then remembered his suspicions regarding Milady .
“ Well , go and fetch them , and come to my apartment .
The French army held all between Pont-a-Marc as far as Valenciennes , falling back upon Douai .
This evening , or tomorrow , the cardinal will send someone to take you away. ” “ Who told you that , my dear ? ” asked Milady .
Monte Cristo smiled at her unusual humility , and showed her two immense porcelain jars , over which wound marine plants , of a size and delicacy that nature alone could produce .
It was evident that he had attempted to regain his bed , but had not had sufficient strength to do so .
“ Well , you see how a man may compromise himself when he does not know what he says , ” replied Athos , shrugging his shoulders as if he thought himself an object of pity .
Joy shone in Raoul ’ s eyes and he leaped lightly to his saddle .
Then those who dwelt in Bonacieux ’ s unfortunate house , together with the nearest neighbors , heard loud cries , stamping of feet , clashing of swords , and breaking of furniture .
As soon as the door of Gondy ’ s study was opened a man rushed in .
Three arcades were before them , and the middle one was used as a door .
For example , here is Debray who reads , and Beauchamp who prints , every day , ‘ A member of the Jockey Club has been stopped and robbed on the Boulevard ; ’ ‘ four persons have been assassinated in the Rue St. Denis ’ or ‘ the Faubourg St. Germain ; ’ ‘ ten , fifteen , or twenty thieves , have been arrested in a _café_ on the Boulevard du Temple , or in the Thermes de Julien , ’ —and yet these same men deny the existence of the bandits in the Maremma , the Campagna di Romana , or the Pontine Marshes .
“ Now , my dear Guitant , I have often remarked that in addition to your courage , which is indisputable , and your fidelity , which is invincible , you possess an admirable memory. ” “ You have found that out , have you , my lord ?
50243m “ _Mon dieu ! _ ” cried Danglars , “ we are not returning to Rome ; then it is not justice which is pursuing me !
“ Half a million , ” said he , “ magnificent ! ” “ Half a million , is it ? ” said the major .
Surely you ought to be able to tell me better than any other person. ” “ Yes ; but in our situation we must not say all we know—particularly as we have been warned that our ears should answer for our tongues. ” “ Well , can I see Porthos ? ” “ Certainly , monsieur .
You will excuse me , will you not ?
Then a window was opened and when they saw and heard they were convinced .
I hate him !
Between people like us threats are out of place , everything should be amicably arranged .
He found the prisoner in the same position , as if fixed there , his eyes swollen with weeping .
I shall obey the wishes of the people .
“ What ’ s that ? ” asked Porthos , “ what are they firing at now ?
I , as a tender father—— ” “ And I as a dutiful son , as they choose that I shall be descended from you. ” “ Whom do you mean by they ? ” “ _Ma foi_ , I can hardly tell , but I was alluding to those who wrote the letter ; you received one , did you not ? ” “ Yes. ” “ From whom ? ” “ From a certain Abbé Busoni. ” “ Have you any knowledge of him ? ” “ No , I have never seen him. ” “ What did he say in the letter ? ” “ You will promise not to betray me ? ” “ Rest assured of that ; you well know that our interests are the same. ” “ Then read for yourself ; ” and the major gave a letter into the young man ’ s hand .
Bonacieux .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied the abbé ; “ and you are the person whom M. de Boville , formerly an inspector of prisons , sends to me from the prefect of police ? ” “ Exactly , sir. ” “ One of the agents appointed to secure the safety of Paris ? ” “ Yes , sir ” replied the stranger with a slight hesitation , and blushing .
Anne ascended the steps side of the bed and softly kissed the placid forehead of her son ; then she retired as silently as she had come , merely saying to Laporte : “ Try , my dear Laporte , to make the king more courteous to Monsieur le Cardinal , to whom both he and I are under such important obligations. ” Chapter V. The Gascon and the Italian .
I am accustomed to adversity .
I will denounce this place of infamy .
“ I , married ? ” exclaimed Monte Cristo , shuddering ; “ who could have told you so ? ” “ No one told me you were , but you have frequently been seen at the Opera with a young and lovely woman. ” “ She is a slave whom I bought at Constantinople , madame , the daughter of a prince .
“ Ah , sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you have a wicked smile .
“ Only name to me the base man that has brought tears into your beautiful eyes ! ” “ Who told you that I had been weeping ? ” said she .
“ But as a man of honor should answer another , tell me fairly , shall you pay these with the same punctuality ? ” Morrel shuddered , and looked at the man , who spoke with more assurance than he had hitherto shown .
Albert refused the pipe which the Nubian offered him .
The abbess assigned her a chamber , and had breakfast served .
It was many years since D ’ Artagnan had opened his heart to any one ; it happened , however , that these two men , on meeting again , assimilated perfectly .
That God , desirous in his mercy to punish but one person , has visited this justice on him alone. ” Monte Cristo with a smile on his lips , uttered in the depths of his soul a groan which would have made Villefort fly had he but heard it .
It was , as we have said , the 1st of March , and the prisoner was soon buried in darkness .
Ah , don ’ t touch me , pray don ’ t. ” By this time his haggard eyes had the appearance of being ready to start from their sockets ; his head fell back , and the lower extremities of the body began to stiffen .
Now , I am going to show you how sincere I am. ” “ Good , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ we must look about us ; he ’ s going to play us a trick. ” “ I offered you your liberty , ” continued the minister ; “ will you take it ?
And then , again , I am not as brave and courageous as was my poor brother. ” Bertuccio hid his face in his hands as he uttered these words , while Monte Cristo fixed on him a look of inscrutable meaning .
He did not therefore allow her any hope that he would flinch ; only he represented his action as one of simple vengeance .
I fear an attack myself , after all these disasters. ” “ Oh , man ! ” murmured d ’ Avrigny , “ the most selfish of all animals , the most personal of all creatures , who believes the earth turns , the sun shines , and death strikes for him alone , —an ant cursing God from the top of a blade of grass !
Grimaud , thinking that they had come , as he had , to try the port wine , effaced himself behind his cask and consoled himself with the reflection that if he were discovered the crime was not a great one .
Mordaunt put his foot on the first step of the door and , with his hat in hand , prepared to pass by the two friends , motioning to the four men to follow him .
If my vote and interest can obtain it for him , I will readily give him the one and promise the other .
As to Lord de Winter , he descended the stairs rapidly , and went straight to the port .
Faria had dug his way through fifty feet , Dantès would dig a hundred ; Faria , at the age of fifty , had devoted three years to the task ; he , who was but half as old , would sacrifice six ; Faria , a priest and savant , had not shrunk from the idea of risking his life by trying to swim a distance of three miles to one of the islands—Daume , Rattonneau , or Lemaire ; should a hardy sailor , an experienced diver , like himself , shrink from a similar task ; should he , who had so often for mere amusement ’ s sake plunged to the bottom of the sea to fetch up the bright coral branch , hesitate to entertain the same project ?
“ What , is it you , Edmond , back again ? ” said he , with a broad Marseillaise accent , and a grin that displayed his ivory-white teeth .
Let our readers reassure themselves .
“ When I am convinced that the statement is false. ” “ What ? ” “ The thing is worth looking into , and I will take pains to investigate the matter thoroughly. ” “ But what is there to investigate , sir ? ” said Albert , enraged beyond measure at Beauchamp ’ s last remark .
According to his conviction , she was some creature of the cardinal , and yet he felt himself invincibly drawn toward her by one of those sentiments for which we can not account .
“ What could be the good of that ?
“ Saved ! ” mechanically repeated the young gentleman , releasing the mane and sliding from the saddle into Raoul ’ s arms ; Raoul was but ten yards from the shore ; there he bore the fainting man , and laying him down upon the grass , unfastened the buttons of his collar and unhooked his doublet .
The citizens always took up arms readily against thieves , wolves or scoundrels , often against nobles or Huguenots , sometimes against the king , but never against the cardinal or Spain .
Go. ” “ Oh , count , you overwhelm me with that coolness .
Athos took his son ’ s horse by the bridle and led him forth out of the melee .
Fernand ’ s mind was made up ; he would shoot Dantès , and then kill himself .
I have pledged my last jewels , sold your clothes and my own to pay his servants , who refused to accompany him unless I made this sacrifice .
That is all I had to say to you. ” “ And I reply to you , sir , that this abuse of power , this exile under a fictitious name , are infamous ! ” “ Would you like better to be hanged in your true name , Milady ?
Divers descended in machines , made expressly on the discovery , into the bay where they were thrown ; but of ten three only remained , the rest having been broken by the waves .
Villefort ’ s impatience during this scene made the perspiration roll from his forehead , and Franz was stupefied .
They had the misfortune to be devoted to that very queen for whom just now you were seeking servants. ” “ But how is it that you know so much of these matters ? ” “ I know them because the men of whom I speak were at that time my enemies ; because they fought against me ; because I did them all the harm I could and they returned it to the best of their ability ; because one of them , with whom I had most to do , gave me a pretty sword-thrust , now about seven years ago , the third that I received from the same hand ; it closed an old account. ” “ Ah ! ” said Mazarin , with admirable suavity , “ could I but find such men ! ” “ My lord , there has stood for six years at your very door a man such as I describe , and during those six years he has been unappreciated and unemployed by you. ” “ Who is it ? ” “ It is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” “ That Gascon ! ” cried Mazarin , with well acted surprise .
Aramis , on the contrary , struck right and left and was almost delirious with excitement .
In consequence , he brought them the key of his own—at least such was the apparent motive of his visit .
This beam crossed , or rather blocked up , the hole Dantès had made ; it was necessary , therefore , to dig above or under it .
Then , through the grating to which she had drawn near , Milady saw the young man make a sign with delirious fervor , and depart in an apparent transport of joy .
Bonacieux expected to see Milady , but she did not return .
I think some one is coming. ” Mousqueton made , with a low whistling sound , the sign of alarm well known to the lackeys in the days of their youth , resumed his place at the table and made a sign to Blaisois to follow his example .
You are inclining toward false doctrines , my young friend ; you will be lost. ” “ You will be lost , ” said the curate , shaking his head sorrowfully .
When I speak of ignominy , you think I speak of some chastisement , of imprisonment or death .
What hinders it ? ” exclaimed the king .
I confess this is the drollest thing I have ever met with in the course of my extensive foreign transactions , and you may readily suppose it has greatly roused my curiosity .
This important task was just completed as they arrived at the countess ’ s box .
“ Well ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ tell us all about it. ” “ _Dame_ , that ’ s a long job , monsieur. ” “ You are right , Planchet , ” said Athos ; “ besides , the tattoo has been sounded , and we should be observed if we kept a light burning much longer than the others. ” “ So be it , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Your excellency has not stated the number of guests. ” “ Ah , true. ” “ How many covers ? ” “ Count for yourself. ” “ Is everyone here , your excellency ? ” “ Yes. ” Bertuccio glanced through the door , which was ajar .
“ It is quite wonderful , ” said Albert .
“ Now I understand , ” he said , “ why you had me brought here to this desolate spot , in the midst of the ocean , to this subterranean palace ; it was because you loved me , was it not , count ?
“ As soon as the enemy are within musket shot , we must fire upon them .
“ It was an ambuscade ! ” shouted D ’ Artagnan .
“ P.S.—I sign my full name , for I should be vain if I could suppose that after five years of absence you would remember my initials. ” The poor duke became perfectly giddy .
Let us now go into the adjoining chamber , which is your apartment , and Ali will bring us coffee and pipes. ” They both arose , and while he who called himself Sinbad—and whom we have occasionally named so , that we might , like his guest , have some title by which to distinguish him—gave some orders to the servant , Franz entered still another apartment .
You understand , Dantès ’ relations , if he had any , might have some interest in knowing if he were dead or alive. ” “ So that now , if there were anything to inherit from him , they may do so with easy conscience .
Chapter 32 .
“ It appears to me that if my boots need a sponge , your stockings and shoes stand in equal need of a brush .
Sending their leave of absence will be proof enough that I authorize their journey. ” “ Thanks , monsieur .
“ D ’ Artagnan !
This fourth murder is apparent to all , and if thy father abandon thee , Valentine , it is I , and I swear it , that shall pursue the assassin. ” And this time , as though nature had at least taken compassion on the vigorous frame , nearly bursting with its own strength , the words of Morrel were stifled in his throat ; his breast heaved ; the tears , so long rebellious , gushed from his eyes ; and he threw himself weeping on his knees by the side of the bed .
“ My father is king ’ s attorney , ” replied Andrea calmly .
D ’ Artagnan pulled up his horse , and whilst his musketeers continued to charge , he returned and bent with drawn sword over the man he had knocked down .
Then , I confess , curiosity mingled with hatred ; I wished to see what Villefort was going to do there , and I remained motionless , holding my breath .
Bonacieux , which had reminded him of that which he had dragged from under the feet of Aramis .
“ Repudiated by her husband , ” said Athos .
“ And what do you believe ? ” His voice was stifled by sobs .
‘ Proceed , ’ was heard on all sides .
“ You may think my departure strange and foolish , ” said the young man ; “ you do not know how a paragraph in a newspaper may exasperate one .
Let us attend to what is more pressing first , and then we will attend to my wound ; besides , it does not seem very dangerous. ” And they both set forward as fast as they could toward the country house of the worthy functionary .
But in that same banker ’ s study , where you very willingly presented yourself yesterday to ask for the thousand francs I give you monthly for pocket-money , you must know , my dear young lady , that many things may be learned , useful even to a girl who will not marry .
Robert le Diable The pretext of an opera engagement was so much the more feasible , as there chanced to be on that very night a more than ordinary attraction at the Académie Royale .
Peace with the landlord , in addition to Athos ’ s old horse , cost six pistoles .
Suddenly he rallied , made a violent effort to restrain himself , and then a smile gradually widened the features of his disturbed countenance .
“ Then why did you smile ? ” “ Why , you know very well that you are reflecting on yourself , Valentine. ” “ Do you want me to go away ? ” “ Ah , no , no .
There was only this blow wanting. ” Then he said aloud , “ My dear friend , your attack has , perhaps , fatigued you ; had you not better repose awhile ?
At first he had been followed through astonishment , then with derisive shouts , then the porters had insulted him , then children had thrown stones at him , and finally he was obliged to run , to escape the missiles .
excellency , the evil has arrived ! ” “ M .
“ Tell me truly , Maximilian , whether in former days , when our fathers dwelt at Marseilles , there was ever any misunderstanding between them ? ” “ Not that I am aware of , ” replied the young man , “ unless , indeed , any ill-feeling might have arisen from their being of opposite parties—your father was , as you know , a zealous partisan of the Bourbons , while mine was wholly devoted to the emperor ; there could not possibly be any other difference between them .
Several times Lord de Winter , Porthos , or Aramis tried to talk with the man in the red cloak ; but to every interrogation which they put to him he bowed , without response .
The baron has just related a frightful story to me. ” Milady assumed her smile of a resigned victim , and shook her head .
chevalier ! ” said Athos .
His drawing-room , under the regenerating influence of a young wife and a daughter by his first marriage , scarcely eighteen , was still one of the well-regulated Paris salons where the worship of traditional customs and the observance of rigid etiquette were carefully maintained .
Put an end to my doubts ; I have courage enough for any danger I can foresee , for every misfortune which I understand .
“ And then philosophic ideas are wholly wanting in Voiture ’ s works , but I am of the same opinion as the coadjutor—he is a poet , a true poet. ” Aramis spoke so as to be heard by everybody .
“ Besides which , in a short time , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ We shall have set battles , cannonades , conflagrations and there will be great variety. ” “ Well , then , I decide. ” “ I have your word , then ? ” “ Yes , ’ tis given .
All these women had been , or were , beautiful .
At the moment when he was about to retire , she was cheered with a ray of hope , for she thought he was about to speak ; but his lips moved without any sound leaving his mouth , and making a powerful effort to control himself , he sent back to his heart the words that were about to escape from his lips , and went out .
In fact , the pursuing vessel had almost overtaken them when , fortunately , night came on , and enabled them to double the Cape of Corsica , and so elude all further pursuit .
“ Would you like to hear the story , sir ? ” “ Yes ; relate it , ” said Monte Cristo , pressing his hand to his heart to still its violent beatings ; he felt afraid of hearing his own history .
“ What is your sister Valentine doing ? ” inquired Madame de Villefort of Edward ; “ tell someone to bid her come here , that I may have the honor of introducing her to the count. ” “ You have a daughter , then , madame ? ” inquired the count ; “ very young , I presume ? ” “ The daughter of M. de Villefort by his first marriage , ” replied the young wife , “ a fine well-grown girl. ” “ But melancholy , ” interrupted Master Edward , snatching the feathers out of the tail of a splendid paroquet that was screaming on its gilded perch , in order to make a plume for his hat .
Père Pamphile , more wine ! ” And Caderousse rattled his glass upon the table .
“ Another gasconade ! ” murmured the gentleman .
He waited for a moment in the hall and called for a servant to conduct him to M. Noirtier ; but no one answered , the servants having , as we know , deserted the house .
“ How much do I owe this gracious prince !
Those who were acquainted soon formed into little groups .
Instead of having watered his cabbage with arsenic , he had watered it this time with a solution of salts , having their basis in strychnine , _strychnos colubrina_ , as the learned term it .
You render me still more unhappy—— ” “ Hate you , blame you—_you_ , Edmond !
“ The monk ! ” exclaimed Grimaud .
Her mistress put on a charming face , and smiled on her graciously ; but alas !
Let us return to my ring , or rather to yours .
Mazarin returned , pale , and evidently thoughtful .
This was the gist of his strange story : The first barrel that Grimaud had found on passing into the compartment he struck—it was empty .
what reason do you assign ? ” “ My reason ? ” replied the young girl .
Three times Athos knocked without receiving an answer .
I am obliged to you Guitant , although your intention was perhaps not very favorable to me , for such an opportunity. ” He turned away and went off to his post , whistling a tune then popular among the party called the “ Fronde , ” whilst Mazarin returned , in a pensive mood , toward the Palais Royal .
Parry , odious as was this sight to him , sought for those among some eight or ten workmen who were making the most noise ; and fixed on two men , who were loosening the last hooks of the iron balcony .
“ The hôtel , then , is far away ? ” “ At the other end of the town. ” “ Very well , ” said Milady ; and she resolutely entered the carriage .
He offered his hand to the baroness , who , descending , took it with a peculiarity of manner imperceptible to everyone but Monte Cristo .
“ Yes , I have seen him , ” he replied , “ and he has handed this letter to me .
It was at this period I learned that the destiny which seemed subservient to every wish formed by Napoleon , had bestowed on him a son , named king of Rome even in his cradle .
“ And you assisted and took part in this great battle , Bragelonne ! ” cried the former musketeer .
Madame de Villefort was slowly ascending the steps which led to her room .
Fortunately , I was so well concealed that he could not find me .
This is a kind of usury , banker , that I do not understand. ” “ Take all , then—take all , I tell you , and kill me ! ” “ Come , come , calm yourself .
As for you , who are young and active , delay not on my account , but fly—go—I give you back your promise. ” “ It is well , ” said Dantès .
It is only shown to me to terrify me , that ’ s all. ’ You are mistaken .
D ’ Artagnan unfolded it with one hand , whose trembling he did not even attempt to conceal , to read : “ Dec .
A Learned Italian Chapter 17 .
They accepted his offer ; but wishing to make the best use of the time that was left , Albert started for Naples .
“ You see I am perfectly composed , ” said Albert .
You see he has a truly royal escort. ” “ Ay , there ’ s no fear in the daytime ; but at night ? ” “ We redouble our precautions. ” “ And what method of surveillance do you employ ? ” “ Eight men remain constantly in his room. ” “ The deuce , he is well guarded , then .
And yet the two young people had never declared their affection ; they had grown together like two trees whose roots are mingled , whose branches intertwined , and whose intermingled perfume rises to the heavens .
“ Anne , ” said he , “ you are but a woman and as a woman you may insult men at your ease , knowing that you can do it with impunity .
The remains of poor Renée were already deposited there , and now , after ten years of separation , her father and mother were to be reunited with her .
They had understood each other without speaking .
The soldiers looked at Dantès with an air of stupid curiosity .
I will say , likewise , he had apprised the count , by a note , of your intention , and , the count being absent , I read the note and sat up to await you. ” “ And he will be guillotined , will he not ? ” said Caderousse .
Have we not on our side the conqueror of Rocroy , of Nordlingen , of Lens ? ” The prince bowed low .
The boudoir upstairs communicated with the bedchamber by an invisible door on the staircase ; it was evident that every precaution had been taken .
This sleep , provincial as it was , brought him to nine o ’ clock in the morning ; at which hour he rose , in order to repair to the residence of M. de Tréville , the third personage in the kingdom , in the paternal estimation .
oh !
At this moment a man who had been crouching in a ditch jumped up and came towards them .
“ Well , what do you think of this , my fine fellow ? ” asked Debray of the sergeant-at-arms , slipping a louis into his hand .
Pale , with a dull eye and heavy heart , all the noble features of that face , usually so calm and serene , were overcast by grief .
You are insane , monsieur. ” “ Monseigneur will doubtless recognize his own handwriting. ” And D ’ Artagnan presented to the cardinal the precious piece of paper which Athos had forced from Milady , and which he had given to D ’ Artagnan to serve him as a safeguard .
“ Oh , father ! ” said she , clasping her hands , “ forgive your child for being the bearer of evil tidings. ” Morrel again changed color .
This voice was that of my father .
At this moment Emmanuel entered , his countenance full of animation and joy .
The queen pressed her brother and the Emperor of Austria to appear to be wounded , as they really were , by the policy of Richelieu—the eternal object of which was the abasement of the house of Austria—to declare war against France , and as a condition of peace , to insist upon the dismissal of the cardinal ; but as to love , there was not a single word about it in all the letter .
On these days he spoke a little .
Did the sun shine in my eyes ? ” And she leaned against the window .
There was such irony in the words and in the bearing of Aramis that the duke had great difficulty in bridling his anger , but at a word from Flamarens he restrained himself and contented himself with saying : “ You promise , sir—that ’ s agreed—that I shall find you to-morrow at Charenton ? ” “ Oh , don ’ t be afraid , sir , ” replied Aramis ; and the two gentlemen shortly afterward left the Louvre .
Mazarin wiped his forehead and looked around him .
You touch them , come in contact with them , speak to them , and they reply to you. ” “ Ah , ” said Villefort , smiling , “ I confess I should like to be warned when one of these beings is in contact with me. ” “ You have been served as you desire , monsieur , for you were warned just now , and I now again warn you. ” “ Then you yourself are one of these marked beings ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , I believe so ; for until now , no man has found himself in a position similar to mine .
That ’ s the reason why I take such care you shall not deprive me of mine .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan never made such an answer as that when the service of your majesty was concerned , ” said Athos , bowing with great dignity .
“ It wants ten minutes to nine , ” said he .
“ Oh , oh ! ” said Andrea , “ you need not be ashamed , even though you did post after me .
“ Take care , Albert , ” said Franz .
Mme .
God gives me strength to overcome a wild beast like you ; in the name of that God I act , —remember that , wretch , —and to spare thee at this moment is still serving him. ” “ Oh ! ” said Caderousse , groaning with pain .
I told you the day before yesterday to bring them with you ; why have you not done so ? ” “ They are below , sire , and with your permission La Chesnaye will bid them come up. ” “ Yes , yes , let them come up immediately .
The water passed over his head , and the sky turned gray .
Then he rang .
Athos came down last , and found D ’ Artagnan already on horseback , and growing impatient .
my dear Mr. Mordaunt , ” said Mazarin , hoping by a display of affected pity to catch the young man in a snare , “ how extremely your history interests me !
Athos !
Some voices were heard to say that the gentleman was right ; that he intended to be civil , in his way , and that they would set the example of liberty of conscience , —and the mob retired .
“ Here are two other cavaliers. ” As he spoke , two horsemen advanced at full speed .
In leaving the Palais Royal he remembered to have observed a similar shadow .
“ Penelon , ” replied Julie , “ go and inform M. Emmanuel of this gentleman ’ s visit , and Maximilian will conduct him to the salon. ” Then , turning to Monte Cristo , — “ I hope you will permit me to leave you for a few minutes , ” continued she ; and without awaiting any reply , disappeared behind a clump of trees , and escaped to the house by a lateral alley .
This probability afforded him his first consolation .
Give it back to him , sir , and since you have such a man in your service , make him useful. ” “ Thank you , madame , ” said Mazarin .
“ Little acquainted as I am with the habits of Parisians , I should not have thought this the place for such a demand. ” “ Still , if people will shut themselves up , ” said Albert , “ and can not be seen because they are bathing , dining , or asleep , we must avail ourselves of the opportunity whenever they are to be seen. ” “ I am not difficult of access , sir ; for yesterday , if my memory does not deceive me , you were at my house. ” “ Yesterday I was at your house , sir , ” said the young man ; “ because then I knew not who you were. ” In pronouncing these words Albert had raised his voice so as to be heard by those in the adjoining boxes and in the lobby .
Then , turning toward Porthos , “ The devil ! ” said he , “ this has a bad look .
Hardly had the door closed when Villefort threw himself half-fainting into a chair .
The next morning going on deck , as he always did at an early hour , the patron found Dantès leaning against the bulwarks gazing with intense earnestness at a pile of granite rocks , which the rising sun tinged with rosy light .
Chapter LXVII .
Alone !
In fact , about four o ’ clock they were all concentrated about the Palais Royal , the courts and ground floors of which were filled with musketeers and Swiss guards , and there awaited the outcome of all this disturbance .
You can suppose , Porthos , that what I have to say relates to most important matters. ” “ Devil take them ; let us walk in the park , ” answered Porthos , “ for the sake of digestion. ” “ Egad , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ the park is like everything else and there are as many fish in your pond as rabbits in your warren ; you are a happy man , my friend since you have not only retained your love of the chase , but acquired that of fishing. ” “ My friend , ” replied Porthos , “ I leave fishing to Mousqueton , —it is a vulgar pleasure , —but I shoot sometimes ; that is to say , when I am dull , and I sit on one of those marble seats , have my gun brought to me , my favorite dog , and I shoot rabbits. ” “ Really , how very amusing ! ” “ Yes , ” replied Porthos , with a sigh , “ it is amusing. ” D ’ Artagnan now no longer counted the sighs .
And what else does your worship wish for ? ” “ To know if you have seen a young man pass , fifteen years of age , mounted on a chestnut horse and followed by a groom ? ” “ The Viscount de Bragelonne ?
“ Have me arrested on the part of the queen , ” said he , “ and I—I will appeal to his Eminence. ” At once Mme .
Can it be , can it possibly be , the ‘ Illustrious Coxcomb , Mazarin de Piscina , ’ hey ? ” Pistache made violent signs that it was , by raising and lowering his head eight or ten times successively .
Valentine Chapter 103 .
I have been waiting for a long time to tell him what I think of him .
“ Will your excellency deign to open it ? ” said the delighted Bertuccio , “ and you will find gloves in it. ” Elsewhere the count found everything he required—smelling-bottles , cigars , knick-knacks .
That is the reason which has induced you to leave Via Reggio , where you have lived since the death of your wife .
“ What do you mean ? —the album ! ” “ I want the album. ” “ How dare you tear out the drawings ? ” “ Oh , it amuses me. ” “ Go—go at once. ” “ I won ’ t go unless you give me the album , ” said the boy , seating himself doggedly in an armchair , according to his habit of never giving way .
I have an old affair to settle with him when I am cured and sound again .
“ They want to arrest Master Broussel ! ” he cried ; “ the guards are in the carriage and the officer is upstairs ! ” The crowd began to murmur and approached the house .
Section 3 .
Let us drink. ” “ Then she is dead ? ” stammered D ’ Artagnan .
What encouraged me not to become your surety , but to patronize you ? —your father ’ s name , so well known in Italy and so highly honored .
I deserted the Church for the world , for you know that I forced myself when I became a Musketeer. ” “ I ?
They then determined to depart .
a glorious prize !
At nine o ’ clock next morning she arose , and without ringing for her maid or giving the least sign of her activity , she dressed herself in the same simple style as on the previous night ; then running downstairs , she left the hotel , walked to the Rue de Provence , called a cab , and drove to M. de Villefort ’ s house .
“ You are right to recall me to myself , Maximilian , ” he said ; “ I was delighted to see you again , and forgot for the moment that all happiness is fleeting. ” “ Oh , no , no , count , ” cried Maximilian , seizing the count ’ s hands , “ pray laugh ; be happy , and prove to me , by your indifference , that life is endurable to sufferers .
Divan , walls , ceiling , floor , were all covered with magnificent skins as soft and downy as the richest carpets ; there were heavy-maned lion-skins from Atlas , striped tiger-skins from Bengal ; panther-skins from the Cape , spotted beautifully , like those that appeared to Dante ; bear-skins from Siberia , fox-skins from Norway , and so on ; and all these skins were strewn in profusion one on the other , so that it seemed like walking over the most mossy turf , or reclining on the most luxurious bed .
When the chancellor appeared , the king had already gone out by another door .
At the moment he entered the vestibule , another man was entering likewise , dusty , out of breath , leaving at the gate a post horse , which , on reaching the palace , tumbled on his foreknees .
It would be impossible to make use of a diligence , equally so to engage post-horses ; to travel either way a passport was necessary .
They then advanced two and two , and saluted each other politely .
This sight reassured him .
He gave us some very fine horses. ” “ And moreover , very handsome saddles , ” said Porthos , who at the moment wore on his cloak the lace of his own .
“ Now , ” said Tréville , lowering his voice , and looking into every corner of the apartment to see if they were alone , “ now let us talk about yourself , my young friend ; for it is evident that your happy return has something to do with the joy of the king , the triumph of the queen , and the humiliation of his Eminence .
The iron box was there—no one had touched it—under a beautiful fig-tree my father had planted the day I was born , which overshadowed the spot .
Meanwhile Ali had procured the arms the count required—namely , a short carbine and a pair of double-barrelled pistols , with which as sure an aim might be taken as with a single-barrelled one .
Bonacieux ; but the poor girl swore upon the crucifix to D ’ Artagnan that she was entirely ignorant on that head , her mistress never admitting her into half her secrets—only she believed she could say she was not dead .
No doubt his ideas were arranged in a few minutes , for he began reading the letter which caused so much uneasiness in the heart of the baroness , and which ran as follows : “ ‘ Madame and most faithful wife. ’ ” Debray mechanically stopped and looked at the baroness , whose face became covered with blushes .
Is M. de Saint-Méran with you ? ” “ M .
“ Sir , ” said Mazarin to him “ an emeute is spoken of in Paris .
Although she cried freely before deciding to transmit the letter to her mistress , she did at last so decide , which was all D ’ Artagnan wished .
He resolved to adopt the second , and began that day to carry out his resolve .
Indeed , indeed , Maximilian , I am very miserable , and if you love me it must be out of pity. ” “ Valentine , ” replied the young man , deeply affected , “ I will not say you are all I love in the world , for I dearly prize my sister and brother-in-law ; but my affection for them is calm and tranquil , in no manner resembling what I feel for you .
D ’ Artagnan appointed eight o ’ clock at Athos ’ s residence .
At the end of the second day M. de Villefort received the following note : “ The person called the Count of Monte Cristo is an intimate acquaintance of Lord Wilmore , a rich foreigner , who is sometimes seen in Paris and who is there at this moment ; he is also known to the Abbé Busoni , a Sicilian priest , of high repute in the East , where he has done much good. ” M. de Villefort replied by ordering the strictest inquiries to be made respecting these two persons ; his orders were executed , and the following evening he received these details : “ The abbé , who was in Paris only for a month , inhabited a small two-storied house behind Saint-Sulpice ; there were two rooms on each floor and he was the only tenant .
In the midst of all the compliments that awaited her on her entrance , the duchess seemed to be looking for some one ; at last she found out Raoul and her eyes sparkled ; she perceived Athos and became thoughtful ; she saw Aramis in the seclusion of the window and gave a start of surprise behind her fan .
Mazarin went to the right hand and Aramis could see the prisoner disappear at the turning of the avenue .
“ What do you want , monsieur ? ” demanded the Musketeer , recoiling a step , and with a foreign accent , which proved to D ’ Artagnan that he was deceived in one of his conjectures .
The house belonged , as the concierge informed your excellency , to M. de Saint-Méran , Villefort ’ s father-in-law .
She loves him ; it was for his sake she has committed these crimes .
He stopped one moment at the door for Baptistin , whom he saw in the Rue Matignon , and who was running .
THE SHOULDER OF ATHOS , THE BALDRIC OF PORTHOS AND THE HANDKERCHIEF OF ARAMIS Chapter V. THE KING ’ S MUSKETEERS AND THE CARDINAL ’ S GUARDS Chapter VI .
Oh , I have done well !
After remaining for a short time in the parterre surrounding the house , and gathering a rose to place in her waist or hair , she turned into the dark avenue which led to the bench ; then from the bench she went to the gate .
Chapter LVIII .
From the day I first saw you , all my hopes of happiness have been in securing your affection .
“ I am at your service , sir , ” said the abbé , with a marked Italian accent .
I shall use it again upon occasion. ” And with all the swiftness of his legs , already a little fatigued , however , with the perambulations of the day , D ’ Artagnan directed his course toward M. de Tréville ’ s .
You know , gentlemen , that I served the Piedmont regiment and had the honor of being a sergeant ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , one day when no one could drill a mob of citizens , who began to march , some with the right foot , others with the left , I succeeded , I did , in making them all begin with the same foot , and I was made lieutenant on the spot. ” “ So I presume , ” said Athos , “ that you have a large number of the nobles with you ? ” “ Certainly .
Now , if you please , remove your bandage. ” The general tore the handkerchief from his eyes .
Go. ” Morrel looked towards Noirtier for permission to retire .
Chapter XXII .
It was upon the cardinal that all the responsibility fell , for one is not a despotic minister without responsibility .
What would his guards think if they heard him shout like a madman ?
“ Give me some water and ether .
Planchet , very proud of being raised to the dignity of landlord , thought he would make all ready , like an intelligent man ; and with this view called in the assistance of the lackey of one of his master ’ s guests , named Fourreau , and the false soldier who had tried to kill D ’ Artagnan and who , belonging to no corps , had entered into the service of D ’ Artagnan , or rather of Planchet , after D ’ Artagnan had saved his life .
My dear Albert , one word , for I must give poor Lucien a respite .
Aramis went to Cromwell ’ s desk , tore off three bits of paper of equal size , wrote on the first his own name and on the others those of his two companions , and presented them open to Mordaunt , who by a movement of his head indicated that he left the matter entirely to Aramis .
When we arrive at the summit of our wishes , success has usually the power to drive away sleep on the first night after the fulfilment of long cherished hopes .
turned around , astonished that any one should dare to address him .
colonel , pay my respects to the officer of yours who struck that blow. ” “ Yes , ” said Harrison , laughing , and looking over at one of the officers seated at his table .
I have corrected the vices that I had ; I have assumed the virtues that I had not .
The Road to Picardy .
But scarcely had he expressed his request when the unknown , who remained standing before the Musketeer , drew back with signs of terror , and refused .
Now , who was that someone ?
“ Take this pen and paper , and write what I dictate. ” “ I don ’ t know how to write , reverend sir. ” “ You lie !
‘ I give you the rest of tonight and all day tomorrow .
He could do it in an hour , and how many times had he , for pure pastime , continued in the water for more than twice as long !
No , no , never ! ” cried Milady .
But you are unable to oppose them , —you , whose mind is so quick , and whose will is so firm are nevertheless , as weak and unequal to the contest as I am myself .
Questions and answers followed in a nonchalant manner that made Dantès indignant , for he felt that all the world should have for the poor abbé a love and respect equal to his own .
I shall still continue to preserve the same respect toward M. Noirtier ; I will suffer , without complaint , the pecuniary deprivation to which he has subjected me ; but I shall remain firm in my determination , and the world shall see which party has reason on his side .
The valet ran directly .
Albert soon left her , ordered his horses , and having arranged his toilet , drove to the Champs-Élysées , to the house of Monte Cristo .
There was no longer any doubt , the bankrupt was in the hands of Roman banditti .
One of the salient points of his character was the search for adventures and a love of romance .
Soon—strange fact—Aramis undid two buttons of his doublet , seeing which , Porthos unfastened his entirely .
“ Bring the prisoner in again , ” said the cardinal .
“ Ah , is it you , Dantès ? ” cried the man in the skiff .
It was Aramis .
The duke exchanged a signal with them .
Nevertheless , as we have said , one circumstance reassured her .
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions .
I increased in wickedness till I committed crime .
“ In reality , ” replied the latter , who , with his aristocratic glance and his knowledge of the world , had penetrated at once all that was penetrable in Monte Cristo , “ Albert has not deceived us , for the count is a most singular being .
“ It is of no use for you to know anything about it , ” said the young woman , whom an instinctive mistrust now impelled to draw back .
His apartment consisted of two small chambers , very nicely fitted up , in a furnished house , the hostess of which , still young and still really handsome , cast tender glances uselessly at him .
I consent on condition that La Ramee tries them with me .
And heaven knows there are hills enough between Rome and Florence by the way of Aquapendente !
I always knew you were a good son. ” “ And , ” inquired Dantès , with some hesitation , “ do you know how my father is ? ” “ Well , I believe , my dear Edmond , though I have not seen him lately. ” “ Yes , he likes to keep himself shut up in his little room. ” “ That proves , at least , that he has wanted for nothing during your absence. ” Dantès smiled .
“ Oh , good lord , ” cried Porthos , “ what precautions for the study of theology ! ” “ Gentlemen , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ do not let us lose our time in jesting .
One of the sailors leaped on shore , a cord creaked as it ran through a pulley , and Dantès guessed they were at the end of the voyage , and that they were mooring the boat .
On the evening of one of the warmest days spring had yet bestowed on the inhabitants of Paris , might be seen negligently thrown upon the stone bench , a book , a parasol , and a work-basket , from which hung a partly embroidered cambric handkerchief , while at a little distance from these articles was a young woman , standing close to the iron gate , endeavoring to discern something on the other side by means of the openings in the planks , —the earnestness of her attitude and the fixed gaze with which she seemed to seek the object of her wishes , proving how much her feelings were interested in the matter .
“ Holloa , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” said he , “ is not that you whom I see yonder ? ” D ’ Artagnan raised his head and uttered a cry of joy .
They reached the office of the procurator after having passed through the antechamber in which the clerks were , and the study in which they ought to have been .
“ Seven o ’ clock ! ” said Grimaud , who had not spoken a word .
In the morning , Felton came as usual ; but Milady allowed him to preside over all the preparations for breakfast without addressing a word to him .
But D ’ Artagnan had on the preceding day served his apprenticeship .
Continue to be the good , sweet girl you are at present , and I have great hopes that Heaven will reward you by giving you Emmanuel for a husband. ” Julie uttered a faint cry , blushed like a rose , and leaned against the baluster .
But to you , D ’ Artagnan , I am , I hope , still dear Athos , your comrade , your friend .
Bonacieux would have fled in terror ; but she was absorbed by jealousy .
When you have arrived there you will go to a mean tavern , without a name and without a sign—a mere fisherman ’ s hut .
Just then the lamp again flickered ; the noise startled Madame de Villefort , who shuddered and dropped the curtain .
But Monte Cristo , without rising , and leaning forward in his chair , merely stretched out his arm and , taking the damp , crushed glove from the clenched hand of the young man : “ Sir , ” said he in a solemn tone , “ I consider your glove thrown , and will return it to you wrapped around a bullet .
As to Mme .
Compelled , as they were , to await a night sufficiently dark to favor their flight , they were obliged to defer their final attempt till that auspicious moment should arrive ; their greatest dread now was lest the stone through which the sentry was doomed to fall should give way before its right time , and this they had in some measure provided against by propping it up with a small beam which they had discovered in the walls through which they had worked their way .
He thought himself in a sepulchre , into which a ray of sunlight in pity scarcely penetrated .
“ My fault ? ” said he ; “ you must be mad !
Mme .
“ They say every year adds half a pound to the weight of the bones , ” said another , lifting the feet .
Chapter XV .
Return , Emmanuel , to your charming wife , and present my best compliments to her ; and do you , Morrel , accompany me to the Champs-Élysées. ” “ Willingly , ” said Maximilian ; “ particularly as I have business in that quarter. ” “ Shall we wait breakfast for you ? ” asked Emmanuel .
Advancing a few steps toward the queen , he knelt down .
“ But hold out your glass .
On the landing D ’ Artagnan blushed ; in the antechamber he trembled .
“ That worthy prince .
Then the lamp was lighted , and I sat down to table .
He then called for his horses , drove to the Chamber , and inscribed his name to speak against the budget .
“ I shall return very safely to the Louvre all alone. ” “ As you please , Madame Bonacieux , ” said the ex-mercer .
“ Excellency , ” said he gravely , addressing Franz , “ if you look upon me as a liar , it is useless for me to say anything ; it was for your interest I—— ” “ Albert does not say you are a liar , Signor Pastrini , ” said Franz , “ but that he will not believe what you are going to tell us , —but I will believe all you say ; so proceed. ” “ But if your excellency doubt my veracity—— ” “ Signor Pastrini , ” returned Franz , “ you are more susceptible than Cassandra , who was a prophetess , and yet no one believed her ; while you , at least , are sure of the credence of half your audience .
“ You have done right , Lieutenant , ” said the soldier .
he is a bully and so am I ; his cassock is a burden to him and I imagine I have had enough of mine ; in fact , there is so much resemblance between us that I sometimes believe he is Aramis and I am the coadjutor .
“ Well , ” said Andrea , “ admitting your love , why do you want me to breakfast with you ? ” “ That I may have the pleasure of seeing you , my little fellow. ” “ What is the use of seeing me after we have made all our arrangements ? ” “ Eh , dear friend , ” said Caderousse , “ are wills ever made without codicils ?
D ’ Artagnan !
In the anteroom , Valentine met Barrois , and looked despairingly at the old servant .
I will , however , inform Monsieur d ’ Artagnan of your arrival here. ” Comminges then led the count to a room on the ground floor of a pavilion , at the end of the orangery .
It seems , however , that I have unconsciously stumbled upon the truth. ” “ Still , ” argued Caderousse , “ I would give a great deal if nothing of the kind had happened ; or , at least , that I had had no hand in it .
and I shall have succeeded in doing nothing for you in spite of all my efforts. ” “ Do not be unhappy , dear friend , on that account ; if you have done nothing as yet , you will do something soon , ” replied Athos .
It would be impossible to describe Mousqueton ’ s astonishment when from the threshold of the door he saw the four friends approaching , followed by a sergeant with a dozen men .
But suppose one pass , as is permissible in philology , from the word itself to its softened synonym , then , instead of committing an ignoble assassination you make an ‘ elimination ; ’ you merely and simply remove from your path the individual who is in your way , and that without shock or violence , without the display of the sufferings which , in the case of becoming a punishment , make a martyr of the victim , and a butcher , in every sense of the word , of him who inflicts them .
“ That I might the sooner see you again , my dear father , ” replied the young man .
Few have passed through this revolutionary period , in the midst of which we were born , without some stain of infamy or blood to soil the uniform of the soldier , or the gown of the magistrate .
In other parts of the forest the light could scarcely penetrate through the foliage , and the stems of two old oak trees , the refuge of the squirrel , startled by the travelers , were in deep shadow .
“ You have promised me to go , ” said the queen .
A deathlike silence oppressed all nature .
“ Some wine ! ” said Athos , on perceiving the host .
“ As to Porthos , that is certainly droll ; but I am not the less a giddy fool .
“ There , madame , ” he said , “ is Monsieur Gondy , who hastens to obey your majesty ’ s summons. ” The queen advanced a few steps to meet him , and then stopped , cold , severe , unmoved , with her lower lip scornfully protruded .
Porthos left the service , and in the course of the following year married Mme .
“ On !
“ Suppose , ” he said , “ we roughly chalk out a career for this young man .
his plan is very simple .
In an instant they found themselves in a little harbor , formed in a natural creek ; the boat grounded on the fine sand .
“ Why , what good would it do ? ” asked Caderousse .
But Harrison paid not the least attention to him , and entering the king ’ s room , followed by his companion : “ Charles Stuart , ” said he , “ an order has come to conduct you to London without stopping day or night .
The Orientals are stronger than we are in cases of conscience , and , very prudently , have no hell—that is the point. ” 30075m “ Really , madame , this is a scruple which naturally must occur to a pure mind like yours , but which would easily yield before sound reasoning .
Two words from the hand of your Majesty and your private seal. ” “ But these two words would bring about my condemnation , divorce , exile ! ” “ Yes , if they fell into infamous hands .
“ Your excellency knows that it is not customary to defend yourself when attacked by bandits. ” “ What ! ” cried Albert , whose courage revolted at the idea of being plundered tamely , “ not make any resistance ! ” “ No , for it would be useless .
At last he determined to discover the cause of this stillness .
At length , M. de Tréville himself returned .
Bonacieux blushed .
Totally disregarding the business of the stage , he leaned from his box and began attentively scrutinizing the beauty of each pretty woman , aided by a powerful opera-glass ; but , alas , this attempt to attract notice wholly failed ; not even curiosity had been excited , and it was but too apparent that the lovely creatures , into whose good graces he was desirous of stealing , were all so much engrossed with themselves , their lovers , or their own thoughts , that they had not so much as noticed him or the manipulation of his glass .
“ And what ? ” Grimaud dictated .
“ Aha , ” said Groslow ; “ on account of political opinions ?
It was the way in which he spoke .
“ Come , come , ” said Albert , “ do not assume so much indifference .
Then his eyes lighted up with hatred as he thought of the three men who had caused him so long and wretched a captivity .
I don ’ t see what is to keep me here. ” A glance was exchanged between Athos and Aramis .
He recounted , with circumstantial exactitude , all the particulars of the supper , the hashish , the statues , the dream , and how , at his awakening , there remained no proof or trace of all these events , save the small yacht , seen in the distant horizon driving under full sail toward Porto-Vecchio .
Grimaud had only to make them a sign to go away , and I am convinced they would have left us in peace. ” “ I doubt that , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ for they are advancing very resolutely .
It was not difficult for him to overtake a woman embarrassed with her cloak .
“ But on taking this knife , Felton , a terrible idea occurred to me .
For a while nothing was heard in the room but a succession of sobs , while the incense from their grateful hearts mounted to heaven .
Monsieur le lieutenant , you have been very prompt .
We have had great annoyances there .
“ I know well that the proposition is tempting , but at present it is impossible to accept it. ” “ And why not ? ” said Aramis , in his tone of raillery .
Franz returned the salute by shaking his handkerchief as an exchange of signals .
Go to England , join the king , be his friends , protectors , march to battle at his side , and be near him in his house , where conspiracies , more dangerous than the perils of war , are hatching every day .
Section 1 .
These rolls consisted of slips of cloth about four inches wide and eighteen long ; they were all carefully numbered and closely covered with writing , so legible that Dantès could easily read it , as well as make out the sense—it being in Italian , a language he , as a Provençal , perfectly understood .
Aramis pushed his back into his saddle-bags and sheathed his sword .
“ What is this that M. de Villefort has been telling me ? ” demanded Monte Cristo “ and what incomprehensible misfortune—— ” “ Incomprehensible is the word ! ” interrupted the procureur , shrugging his shoulders .
At the same time he pointed to a window , through the shutters of which a faint light streamed .
If they recognize you , you are lost. ” “ Care not for me , sire ; think only of yourself .
Anne frowned .
‘ Why , the good God sends him back again. ’ Caderousse sank pale and breathless into his chair .
Bonacieux , “ yes , there are traitors here ; but by the holy name of the Virgin , I swear that no one is more devoted to your Majesty than I am .
She was talking with great animation with the stranger .
He proceeded slowly and in deep reverie .
“ Then you hope ? ” said d ’ Avrigny , with surprise .
What matters this punishment , as long as he is avenged ?
I am commandant of the port .
“ His carelessness and indifference touch me to the heart , ” said Julie .
Not at all , my young man .
“ Now sir , ” said Madame de Villefort , “ I must bid you farewell .
_Au revoir_ , Benedetto ; ” and running into a court , he disappeared .
I only know that there was a conspiracy to rescue the king. ” “ Ah , you knew that ? ” said Mordaunt .
The furniture had been knocked over in the deadly struggle that had taken place there , and the sheets , to which the unfortunate jeweller had doubtless clung , were dragged across the room .
He is waiting till your majesty is ready. ” “ I am .
“ But what would you have us to do here , now that the king is dead ? ” “ Go , sir count , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , carelessly ; “ you see nothing to keep you a little longer in England ?
the three young people separated—that is to say , Morrel went to the Boulevards , Château-Renaud to the Pont de la Révolution , and Debray to the Quai .
Is it my affair ?
Bonacieux ; “ somebody is coming. ” Immediately the door opened , and the superior entered .
we do what we can ! ” And she rushed out of the room .
Aramis came behind , giving his arm to Porthos .
He entreated to be allowed to walk about , to have fresh air , books , and writing materials .
He was , as we have already said , perfectly well acquainted with the literature of all countries .
The gloomy building rose from the bosom of the ocean with imposing majesty and seemed to dominate the scene .
“ We shall soon see , ” said Porthos , in his tranquil way . )
Ali was stationed as a kind of advanced guard , and the door was kept by the three French attendants , commanded by Myrtho .
This was the chief of the band , Luigi Vampa .
He looked coldly at the queen , who nudged Mazarin to make him say something in his turn .
I learn this desire , or rather I suspect that you feel it ; and in order to spare you all the annoyances of a nocturnal arrival in a port and all the fatigues of landing , I send one of my officers to meet you , I place a carriage at his orders , and he brings you hither to this castle , of which I am governor , whither I come every day , and where , in order to satisfy our mutual desire of seeing each other , I have prepared you a chamber .
Placed by popular confidence at the head of that movement , I can appreciate better than any other its significance and its probable results .
“ Thanks for the comparison , ” said Albert , with a bow .
“ What was it that you thought ? ” asked the young man anxiously , in his turn descending from the table .
In one of those halts he heard the steps of several horses on the road .
Think for a moment .
The messenger uttered a cry of joy and clapped his hands .
However , as they were fighting in a room and had not space to go on like that forever , Mordaunt ’ s foot at last touched the wall , against which he rested his left hand .
A boatman , who had passed by Rogliano , and who had several of these animals , whose tricks had greatly diverted him , had , doubtless , suggested this idea to him .
“ Ah , this time , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , springing to his sword , “ this time he will not escape me ! ” Drawing his sword from its scabbard , he rushed out of the apartment .
Well , I , who am a Bonapartist also , declare one thing to you , which is , that I will kill you .
But the real adieux were made in Mme .
It was now a third full , just as it was when she threw the contents into the ashes .
Around the table reigned that noisy hilarity which usually prevails at such a time among people sufficiently free from the demands of social position not to feel the trammels of etiquette .
Lord Winter answers for his regiment , or at least very nearly so—we will not split straws about words—let him place himself at the head of his men , we will place ourselves at the side of your majesty , and we will mow a swath through Cromwell ’ s army and reach Scotland. ” “ There is another method , ” said Aramis .
She comes from Martinique , so I call her the beautiful Indian. ” Raoul looked surprised and his eyes met those of the young lady , who smiled .
Chapter LIV .
The sick man was not yet able to speak , but he pointed with evident anxiety towards the door .
His eye took in at a glance the plump , cheerful countenance of the mistress of the place , and he at once perceived there was no occasion for dissembling with her , or of fearing anything from one blessed with such a joyous physiognomy .
The southern districts were ill-watched in particular , in consequence of the disturbances that were perpetually breaking out in Avignon , Nîmes , or Uzès .
“ You understand , then , that if it were so , ” said he , rising in his turn , and approaching the baroness , to speak to her in a lower tone , “ we are lost .
He strove to collect a band of followers , and followed the footsteps of Decesaris and Gasparone , whom he hoped to surpass .
The Island of Monte Cristo loomed large in the horizon .
The breeze had been so light all night , they had made but little progress .
Aramis , suffering at once in body and mind , had at length fixed his eyes and his thoughts upon religion , and he had considered as a warning from heaven the double accident which had happened to him ; that is to say , the sudden disappearance of his mistress and the wound in his shoulder .
“ Do you know that ? ” he asked .
at the Hotel de Ville ?
“ You ask that ? ” “ Put your two hands together .
She drew her husband to the door .
Mordaunt put his hand into the hat , took out one of the three papers and disdainfully dropped it on the table without reading it .
The steps were crowded with masks , who strove to snatch each other ’ s torches .
They walked from one end of the chateau to the other , Porthos looking with wondering eyes at D ’ Artagnan , who was counting on his fingers .
Here I am in the heart of Paris ; but a moment ago I heard the rumbling of the omnibuses and the tinkling of the bells of the lemonade-sellers , and now I feel as if I were suddenly transported to the East ; not such as I have seen it , but such as my dreams have painted it .
Well , I can weather the storm—I , whom , notwithstanding , you tax with fear—not with bravado , that is not my way ; but I am firm .
The Abbé Busoni did right to send you to me , ” he went on in his ordinary tone , “ and you have done well in relating to me the whole of your history , as it will prevent my forming any erroneous opinions concerning you in future .
“ What are you doing ? ” said he .
Mousqueton ’ s horse rejoined them , and galloped by the side of his companions .
40270m Chapter 93 .
When she recognized her lover , the poor girl extended her arms to him , and believed herself safe ; but Carlini felt his heart sink , for he but too well knew the fate that awaited her .
“ And you say he is dressed as a monk , Grimaud ? ” “ Yes , as an Augustine monk. ” “ What sized man is he ? ” “ About my height ; thin , pale , with light blue eyes and tawny flaxen hair. ” “ And he did not see Raoul ? ” asked Athos .
Grimaud then took from the pocket of the officer all the keys it contained and first opened the door of the room in which they were , then shut it and double-locked it , and both he and the duke proceeded rapidly down the gallery which led to the little inclosure .
Nevertheless , I promise thee thou shalt be hidden here , though I risk by concealing thee neither more nor less than my lieutenancy , if it was found out that I gave one rebel an asylum. ” “ Ah !
Did you know him ?
That means balls , dinners , and lawn parties without end , in all of which I trust the count will remember us , as he may depend upon it we shall him , in our own humble entertainments. ” In spite of the gross flattery and coarseness of this address , Madame Danglars could not forbear gazing with considerable interest on a man capable of expending six millions in twelve months , and who had selected Paris for the scene of his princely extravagance .
“ Without doubt , ” she murmured .
How was it that a presentiment did not warn Mercédès that her lover was within three hundred yards of her ?
I have not time for anybody ’ s affairs but my own and those of my honorable guests ; but I make an agreement with the man who pastes up the papers , and he brings them to me as he would the playbills , that in case any person staying at my hotel should like to witness an execution , he may obtain every requisite information concerning the time and place etc. ” “ Upon my word , that is a most delicate attention on your part , Signor Pastrini , ” cried Franz .
“ You are very lucky if you see anything such a night as this , ” said Porthos .
In one the queen asked for the ornaments back again .
Why I was here only ten or twelve days ago .
“ Well then , your eminence , ” said the queen , becoming impatient , “ what is your answer ? ” “ Madame , ” cried Mazarin , more and more moved , “ will your majesty permit me to give you counsel ? ” “ Speak , sir , ” replied the queen ; “ the counsels of so prudent a man as yourself ought certainly to be available. ” “ Madame , believe me , the king ought to defend himself to the last. ” “ He has done so , sir , and this last battle , which he encounters with resources much inferior to those of the enemy , proves that he will not yield without a struggle ; but in case he is beaten ? ” “ Well , madame , in that case , my advice—I know that I am very bold to offer advice to your majesty—my advice is that the king should not leave his kingdom .
See the state in which he has put me. ” “ Oh , my Lord ! ” cried the baron , “ I shall never console myself. ” “ And you would be quite wrong , my dear De Winter , ” said Buckingham , holding out his hand to him .
But passing his hand across his forehead as if to dispel his reverie , he rang the bell twice and Bertuccio entered .
Monsieur de Gondy would pay a hundred thousand francs for such a secret ! ” “ You are thoughtful , ” said Mazarin , uneasily .
He held out his hand .
“ She was branded. ” Athos emptied at a single draught the glass he held in his hand .
About seven in the morning Andrea was awakened by a ray of sunlight , which played , warm and brilliant , upon his face .
Impossible !
Caderousse , then , was , as usual , at his place of observation before the door , his eyes glancing listlessly from a piece of closely shaven grass—on which some fowls were industriously , though fruitlessly , endeavoring to turn up some grain or insect suited to their palate—to the deserted road , which led away to the north and south , when he was aroused by the shrill voice of his wife , and grumbling to himself as he went , he mounted to her chamber , first taking care , however , to set the entrance door wide open , as an invitation to any chance traveller who might be passing .
Unfortunately , No .
“ He certainly bodes us no good , ” said Athos ; “ but let us embark ; once out at sea , let him come. ” And Athos sprang into the boat , which was immediately pushed off and which soon sped seawards under the efforts of four stalwart rowers .
“ There , ” he said , “ is our road. ” “ The deuce !
ah !
All four were to meet the next day at eleven o ’ clock .
It was the voice of a cavalier mounted on a magnificent black horse , who was charging at the head of the English regiment , of which , in his ardor , he was ten steps in advance .
From time to time Parry stopped , thinking the king , whose eyes were closed , was really asleep , but Charles would open his eyes and say with a smile : “ Go on , my good Parry , I am listening. ” Groslow advanced to the door of the king ’ s room , replaced on his head the hat he had taken off to receive his guests , looked for a moment contemptuously at this simple , yet touching scene , then turning to D ’ Artagnan , assumed an air of triumph at what he had achieved .
At Blois , D ’ Artagnan received the money paid to him by Mazarin for any future service he might render the cardinal .
And did the eccentric person commit any new originality ? ” “ Can he be seen without doing so ?
He arose , bowed , went out , returned by the same way he came , re-entered the hôtel , and went to his apartment .
And yet it is very hard , ” added she , “ that a man upon whose affection I thought I might depend , treats me thus unkindly and will not comply with any of my fancies. ” “ That is because your fancies go too far , ” replied the triumphant Bonacieux , “ and I mistrust them. ” “ Well , I will give it up , then , ” said the young woman , sighing .
_Diable ! _ when a churchman is killed , it should be with a different weapon than a log , especially when he has behaved like a father .
She declared that she would never assent to the treaty and that she wished eternal war .
Immediately a brilliant light from the next room , or rather from the palace adjoining , shone upon the room in which he was gently gliding into his last sleep .
“ To be sure , to see you .
Doubtless one of the charming females Albert had detected beneath their coquettish disguise was touched by his gallantry ; for , as the carriage of the two friends passed her , she threw a bunch of violets .
“ The brutal affectation with which you have enumerated and classified your crimes calls for a severe reprimand on the part of the court , both in the name of morality , and for the respect due to humanity .
Being a man who knew that the former of these symptoms was one of the inherent penalties of womanhood , he did not then press his inquiries , but waited for a more appropriate opportunity when he should again interrogate her , or receive an avowal _proprio motu_ .
“ Go to bed , Planchet , and sleep soundly. ” “ My faith , monsieur !
“ Oh , ” said Julie , pressing the purse to her heart , “ no , no , I beseech you do not take it , for some unhappy day you will leave us , will you not ? ” “ You have guessed rightly , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo , smiling ; “ in a week I shall have left this country , where so many persons who merit the vengeance of Heaven lived happily , while my father perished of hunger and grief. ” While announcing his departure , the count fixed his eyes on Morrel , and remarked that the words , “ I shall have left this country , ” had failed to rouse him from his lethargy .
Then he sent his card to Signor Pastrini , and asked for Albert de Morcerf .
“ Without remorse , ” said he .
“ Well , then , how is it that your eminence complained just now of want of information ? ” “ You think , ” resumed Mazarin , “ that Rochefort—— ” “ He was Cardinal Richelieu ’ s creature , my lord .
THE SIEGE OF LA ROCHELLE Chapter XLII .
Have you lost your heart ? ” “ Indeed , I fear it , ” replied Andrea , in the tone in which he had heard Dorante or Valère reply to Alceste21 at the Théâtre Français .
Selim repeated from time to time the sacred words : ‘ God is great ! ’ However , my mother had still some hope .
“ I believe so ; I don ’ t know ; it ’ s of no consequence .
Danglars , hidden behind a curtain , watched the departure he had been waiting for .
And as a proof of what I say she commanded me to show you this diamond , which she thinks you know. ” And so saying , Mazarin extended his hand to the officer , who sighed as he recognized the ring so gracefully given to him by the queen on the night of the ball at the Hotel de Ville and which she had repurchased from Monsieur des Essarts .
Chapter 109 .
We have arranged the ransom of each of them—2,000 on arriving in France .
The prince was , therefore , contrary to his custom , gloomy and anxious , when an officer entered and announced to Marshal de Grammont that some one wished to see him .
She had been standing at the door , to prevent his going out without seeing her , until sleep , which the young can not resist , had overpowered her frame , wearied as she was with watching .
It has arrived at the Hôtel des Princes , Rue de Richelieu .
Signor Pastrini had promised them a banquet ; he gave them a tolerable repast .
There were then great griefs , tears without end and solemn promises to remain faithful—all of course on the part of the hostess .
“ Enter , gentlemen , enter , ” said the queen .
Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1 .
Ought I not also to have rescued the man that I had accepted for a husband , guilty though he were ?
“ Ah , my poor friend !
She learned drawing , music—everything .
It was evident that the execution was , in the eyes of the people , only the commencement of the Carnival .
7 in the Rue Meslay .
But you are not the king , my son , and can never be so while they are alive .
With it was effaced the last trace of the preceding night ; and then supper , Sinbad , hashish , statues , —all became a dream for Franz .
The Room of the Retired Baker The evening of the day on which the Count of Morcerf had left Danglars ’ house with feelings of shame and anger at the rejection of the projected alliance , M. Andrea Cavalcanti , with curled hair , moustaches in perfect order , and white gloves which fitted admirably , had entered the courtyard of the banker ’ s house in Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin .
The rock , already shaken by the explosion , tottered on its base .
40104m While Albert was lashing the front of his carriage in the same manner that he had the newspapers which were the innocent agents of his discomfiture , as he was crossing the barrier he perceived Morrel , who was walking with a quick step and a bright eye .
There is in London , I hope , some establishment like that of the Magdalens , or of the Repentant Daughters .
“ Is he still in a fit ? ” said the procureur .
“ And I , ” said Porthos , rolling his large eyes , “ remember , I will skin you alive. ” “ Ah , monsieur ! ” “ And I , ” said Aramis , with his soft , melodius voice , “ remember that I will roast you at a slow fire , like a savage. ” “ Ah , monsieur ! ” Planchet began to weep .
1.F.4 .
Villefort continued : “ He knows me , and I have pledged my word to him .
Our former life , has it still no attractions for you ?
Has he by any possibility gone to change his face which was too like that of Monsieur de Mazarin ?
Stay , count , ” he added , “ you , who may be called the emperor , if I claim the title of king of finance , have you many pieces of paper of this size , each worth a million ? ” The count took into his hands the papers , which Danglars had so proudly presented to him , and read : — “ ‘ To the Governor of the Bank .
the Scotch , my brothers !
That will fall in wonderfully well ; you will not appear to have gone out of your way to please the queen. ” Then the cardinal added , “ _A propos_ , sire , do not forget to tell her Majesty the evening before the fête that you should like to see how her diamond studs become her. ” Chapter XVII .
As long as they were within the circle of the camp , the four friends did not exchange one word ; besides , they were followed by the curious , who , hearing of the wager , were anxious to know how they would come out of it .
50203m “ Before you quit us , count , ” said Julie , “ will you permit us to express to you all that the other day—— ” “ Madame , ” interrupted the count , taking her two hands in his , “ all that you could say in words would never express what I read in your eyes ; the thoughts of your heart are fully understood by mine .
“ Just so. ” “ Then you are called Monsieur Grimaud ? ” The traveler made a sign of assent .
a dead horse ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , pulling up his horse , which shied ; “ it seems their horses , too , are breaking down , as well as ours. ” “ I seem to hear the noise of a troop of horsemen , ” exclaimed Porthos , leaning over his horse ’ s mane .
Yet the Parisian world is so strange , that even all this might not have won attention had there not been connected with it a mysterious story gilded by an immense fortune .
I know these airs ; I myself came to Paris with four crowns in my purse , and would have fought with anyone who dared to tell me I was not in a condition to purchase the Louvre. ” D ’ Artagnan ’ s bearing became still more imposing .
‘ I give you 45,000 francs—that is , 2,500 livres of income , —a fortune such as I wish I had myself , and you are not satisfied ! ’ “ ‘ And the five-and-forty thousand francs , ’ inquired Caderousse in a hoarse voice , ‘ where are they ?
From two o ’ clock till five Franz and Albert followed in the _fête_ , exchanging handfuls of _confetti_ with the other carriages and the pedestrians , who crowded amongst the horses ’ feet and the carriage wheels without a single accident , a single dispute , or a single fight .
The next day at the appointed hour they went to see Athos and found him and Aramis in traveling costume .
“ See this gentleman out , ” said the count to Bertuccio .
Do you know , count , that persons of our time of life—not that you belong to the class , you are still a young man , —but as I was saying , persons of our time of life have been very unfortunate this year .
A moment after Caderousse ’ s face appeared at the grating in the door .
It was seven o ’ clock in the evening when the marshal arrived at the appointed place .
“ What do you decide on , sir ? ” asked the notary of Villefort .
The carriage stopped .
“ Monseigneur , ” said Marshal de Grammont , with a radiant face , “ will your highness permit my son , Count de Guiche , and his traveling companion , Viscount de Bragelonne , to come in and give news of the enemy , whom they have found while we were looking for him ? ” “ What ! ” eagerly replied the prince , “ will I permit ?
You may join me at the Hôtel des Gardes .
I stretched out my arms .
Notwithstanding his commission in the musketeers , D ’ Artagnan felt completely solitary .
She renewed the order relative to the Gascon ; but as before she expected him in vain .
A young man does not require luxuries ; besides , I know what travelling is. ” “ With a post-chaise and valet de chambre ? ” “ Any way , mother. ” “ Well , be it so .
“ Well , sir , ” said Madame de Saint-Méran , after a few minutes ’ reflection , “ I must hasten the marriage , for I have but a short time to live. ” “ You , madame ? ” “ You , dear mamma ? ” exclaimed M. de Villefort and Valentine at the same time .
It is you who set out seven or eight months ago from your country to seek your fortune in the capital ? ” “ Yes , monseigneur. ” “ You came through Meung , where something befell you .
“ I lost Madame du Vallon two years ago , ” he said , “ and you find me still in affliction on that account .
Edmond and Mercédès were clasped in each other ’ s arms .
“ What is this rent ? ” said he , showing D ’ Artagnan a place where it had been pierced through .
His signal was returned , and in two hours afterwards the new-comer lay at anchor beside the yacht .
“ The discourse is over ; farewell , gentlemen , ” said the count , unceremoniously .
“ Oh , sire , what a dreadful misfortune !
Grimaud showed his master his forefinger bent .
Under this head , also , Bragelonne had much more to hear than to tell .
The next morning he left that inn as he had left the Hôtel des Princes , without being noticed , walked down the Faubourg Saint-Antoine , along the boulevard to Rue Ménilmontant , and stopping at the door of the third house on the left looked for someone of whom to make inquiry in the porter ’ s absence .
I am your only daughter , and you are not so exacting as the fathers of the Porte Saint-Martin and Gaîté , who disinherit their daughters for not giving them grandchildren .
“ She is very amiable , then , is she not ? ” said Albert .
“ Where have you come from , my dear count ? ” said Albert .
Your father did not hesitate an instant , and the sum was sent to the frontier of Piedmont , with a passport signed for Italy .
“ Listen , Hermine ; I consider myself as brave as most men , but when I drew from my breast the little key of the staircase , which I had found in my coat—that little key we both used to cherish so much , which you wished to have fastened to a golden ring—when I opened the door , and saw the pale moon shedding a long stream of white light on the spiral staircase like a spectre , I leaned against the wall , and nearly shrieked .
“ You see , I destroy it ? ” “ Oh , ” exclaimed Dantès , “ you are goodness itself. ” “ Listen , ” continued Villefort ; “ you can now have confidence in me after what I have done. ” “ Oh , command , and I will obey. ” “ Listen ; this is not a command , but advice I give you. ” “ Speak , and I will follow your advice. ” “ I shall detain you until this evening in the Palais de Justice .
Morrel listened to catch the last sound of her dress brushing the branches , and of her footstep on the gravel , then raised his eyes with an ineffable smile of thankfulness to heaven for being permitted to be thus loved , and then also disappeared .
Was Mazarin to remain the favorite and minister of the queen ?
Oh , no , Edmond , it is myself that I blame , myself that I hate !
50119m “ Where is Morrel ? ” he asked ; “ do either of these gentlemen know where he is ? ” “ We have already asked that question , ” said Château-Renaud , “ for none of us has seen him. ” The count was silent , but continued to gaze around him .
The host felt a cold sweat creep down his back .
The duchess was the first to speak .
“ Let us rather kill them !
The count advanced , accompanied by Maximilian and Emmanuel .
It was about five o ’ clock .
They went on a hundred and fifty paces in this way , and then were stopped by , “ Who comes there ? ” At the same time they saw the reflection of a torch on a carbine barrel .
“ Who told you so ?
Then , taking the glass with a firm hand , she said , “ Drink .
Bertuccio ! ” cried he , striking a light hammer with a pliant handle on a small gong .
This last proof , instead of giving him fresh strength , deprived him of it ; the pickaxe descended , or rather fell ; he placed it on the ground , passed his hand over his brow , and remounted the stairs , alleging to himself , as an excuse , a desire to be assured that no one was watching him , but in reality because he felt that he was about to faint .
Milady had spoken to the man in the black cloak ; therefore she knew him .
No—no , I am aware you know me ; but I know you only as an adventurer sewn up in gold and jewellery .
The officer entered , a large fat man , with an open physiognomy .
Carriages now arrived in crowds ; those of the Marechal de Villeroy , Guitant , Villequier and Comminges came into the line .
It would be a pleasure worthy of a prince to travel upon such horses. ” “ Well , my dear Aramis , you may enjoy that pleasure , for one of those three horses is yours. ” “ Ah , bah !
But Athos only replied to this proposal by shrugging his shoulders .
You ride on our lackey ’ s horses , and have your own gallant steeds led along carefully by hand , at short stages. ” At the same instant a market cart , which some minutes before had appeared upon the Amiens road , pulled up at the inn , and Planchet and Grimaud came out of it with the saddles on their heads .
“ Yes , ” said the procureur , “ and I think the will promises to be yet more extraordinary , for I can not see how it is to be drawn up without the intervention of Valentine , and she may , perhaps , be considered as too much interested in its contents to allow of her being a suitable interpreter of the obscure and ill-defined wishes of her grandfather. ” “ No , no , no , ” replied the eye of the paralytic .
I understand that Mazarin is at this very moment extremely uneasy as to the state of affairs ; that his orders are not respected like those of our former bugbear , the deceased cardinal , whose portrait as you see hangs yonder—for whatever may be thought of him , it must be allowed that Richelieu was great. ” “ I will not contradict you there , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
I left five hundred with Assunta , my sister-in-law , and with the other five hundred I set off for Nîmes .
The salutation was so well understood that Morrel , with the same expression in his eyes , placed his handkerchief to his mouth ; and these two living statues , whose hearts beat so violently under their marble aspect , separated from each other by the whole length of the room , forgot themselves for a moment , or rather forgot the world in their mutual contemplation .
When they did so they found the three lower rows of benches already occupied ; but being anxious not to be too conspicuous , all , with the exception of Porthos , who had a fancy to display his red doublet , were quite satisfied with their places , the more so as chance had brought them to the centre of their row , so that they were exactly opposite the arm-chair prepared for the royal prisoner .
“ How did you come to be dining with that prince whose house you have just left ? ” “ He is not a prince ; simply a count. ” “ A count , and a rich one too , eh ? ” “ Yes ; but you had better not have anything to say to him , for he is not a very good-tempered gentleman. ” “ Oh , be easy !
false gentleman ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , springing forward , in his turn , after the servant .
The three friends burst into laughter .
you have purchased it dearly enough. ” D ’ Artagnan left Athos ’ s chamber and went to that of Porthos .
Do you mean to say that it was he who bestowed that severe thrust at Jussac ? ” “ And those two equally fine thrusts at Bernajoux. ” “ Truly ! ” “ Without reckoning , ” said Athos , “ that if he had not rescued me from the hands of Cahusac , I should not now have the honor of making my very humble reverence to your Majesty. ” “ Why he is a very devil , this Béarnais !
As for Villefort , instead of sending to Paris , he carefully preserved the petition that so fearfully compromised Dantès , in the hopes of an event that seemed not unlikely , —that is , a second restoration .
“ No , sir , the facts were precisely what you have stated , ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ and it was to prevent the renewal of old feuds that M. de Villefort formed the idea of uniting in the bonds of affection the two children of these inveterate enemies. ” “ It was a sublime and charitable thought , ” said Monte Cristo , “ and the whole world should applaud it .
My mother is only astonished that you remain so long unsolved .
Athos sighed deeply ; the sigh woke the king , so lightly did he sleep .
“ That ’ s my room , ” replied Groslow .
I have no right to it .
At that instant the little side-gate leading from the waste ground to the street was noiselessly opened , and a tall , powerful young man appeared .
ah !
There now , shall we start ? ” “ When you like ; but have you no groom ? ” “ No ; that idiot Bazin had the folly to make himself verger , as you know , and therefore can not leave Notre Dame .
“ That I am exceedingly disquieted , sire. ” “ Really , have you had a vision of the seven fat kine and the seven lean kine ? ” “ No , sire , for that would only betoken for us seven years of plenty and seven years of scarcity ; and with a king as full of foresight as your majesty , scarcity is not a thing to be feared. ” “ Then of what other scourge are you afraid , my dear Blacas ? ” “ Sire , I have every reason to believe that a storm is brewing in the south. ” “ Well , my dear duke , ” replied Louis XVIII. , “ I think you are wrongly informed , and know positively that , on the contrary , it is very fine weather in that direction. ” Man of ability as he was , Louis XVIII .
“ The truth , madame , ” said Mazarin , placing a pen and a paper before her , “ you must ; ” then he added : “ Sign , Anne , I implore you—I command you. ” The queen fell into a chair , took the pen and signed .
Thirty strides brought them to dry land ; the young man stamped on the ground to shake off the wet , and looked around for someone to show him his road , for it was quite dark .
“ What are you going to do ? ” cried Mme .
“ Upon my word , ” said Monte Cristo , “ Paris is a strange city , and the Parisians a very singular people .
“ En route , gentlemen. ” And the troop , grumbling angrily , disappeared in the darkness and took the road to Paris .
Five minutes afterward they knocked at the prince ’ s door .
“ I ?
Mousqueton ’ s horse which had traveled for five or six hours without a rider the day before , might have been able to pursue the journey ; but by an inconceivable error the veterinary surgeon , who had been sent for , as it appeared , to bleed one of the host ’ s horses , had bled Mousqueton ’ s .
It also boasted of what in Languedoc is styled a garden , consisting of a small plot of ground , on the side opposite to the main entrance reserved for the reception of guests .
Before we are alarmed , we see correctly ; when we are alarmed , we see double ; and when we have been alarmed , we see nothing but trouble .
“ Listen , ” said he ; “ just now I told you it was of M. de Monte Cristo you must demand an explanation. ” “ Yes ; and we are going to his house. ” “ Reflect , Morcerf , one moment before you go. ” “ On what shall I reflect ? ” “ On the importance of the step you are taking. ” “ Is it more serious than going to M. Danglars ? ” “ Yes ; M. Danglars is a money-lover , and those who love money , you know , think too much of what they risk to be easily induced to fight a duel .
They were anxious about you here ; I simply told them where you were .
“ But , hark , hark !
“ Is our little neighbor worse ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , seeing a look of vexation on the face of the youth .
Come , you shall take charge of the money , I of the jewel-box ; so that if one of us had the misfortune to lose her treasure , the other would still have hers left .
Tréville was one of these latter .
“ My dear fellow , I invited them to a dinner the next day , ” replied Aramis .
Have you never seen anyone enter your room at night ? ” “ Oh , yes ; I have frequently seen shadows pass close to me , approach , and disappear ; but I took them for visions raised by my feverish imagination , and indeed when you entered I thought I was under the influence of delirium. ” “ Then you do not know who it is that attempts your life ? ” 50073m “ No , ” said Valentine ; “ who could desire my death ? ” “ You shall know it now , then , ” said Monte Cristo , listening .
“ Oh , if you do know him , ” cried Julie , “ can you tell us where he is—where we can find him ?
The prince leaped to his feet , extending his hand in the direction whence came the sound , there was no mistaking it—it was the noise of cannon .
The young man ’ s eyes gradually resumed their dull and glassy appearance and he fell into a profound reverie .
The Night Monte Cristo waited , according to his usual custom , until Duprez had sung his famous “ _Suivez-moi ! _ ” then he rose and went out .
I may acknowledge this to a daughter whom I know to be philosophical enough to understand my indifference , and not to impute it to me as a crime. ” “ This is not to the purpose , ” said Eugénie ; “ let us speak candidly , sir ; I admire candor. ” “ Oh , ” said Danglars , “ I can , when circumstances render it desirable , adopt your system , although it may not be my general practice .
The horse and servant belonging to De Winter were waiting for him at the door ; he proceeded toward his abode very thoughtfully , looking behind him from time to him to contemplate the dark and silent frontage of the Louvre .
But he has discovered a thousand means of taking it away , and the devil has somewhat aided him .
Chapter XXIII .
Madame de Villefort instantly stepped back close to the wall , and there , shaded by the bed-curtains , she silently and attentively watched the slightest movement of Valentine .
“ Pardieu !
Kitty , fearing she was ill , hastened toward her and was beginning to open her dress ; but Milady started up , pushing her away .
The occupant of the box in which the Greek girl sat appeared to share the universal admiration that prevailed ; for he left his seat to stand up in front , so that , his countenance being fully revealed , Franz had no difficulty in recognizing him as the mysterious inhabitant of Monte Cristo , and the very same person he had encountered the preceding evening in the ruins of the Colosseum , and whose voice and figure had seemed so familiar to him .
Shut the dungeon as if he were alive—that is all. ” Then the steps retreated , and the voices died away in the distance ; the noise of the door , with its creaking hinges and bolts ceased , and a silence more sombre than that of solitude ensued , —the silence of death , which was all-pervasive , and struck its icy chill to the very soul of Dantès .
I hope the world will not call me cowardly for acting as my conscience dictated .
The vicar himself awaited him , conducted him to the top of the tower , and when there pointed to a little door , placed the light which he had brought with him in a corner of the wall , that the coadjutor might be able to find it on his return , and went down again .
The count turned around , and fancied he saw him in the corridor , rendered still darker by the torch carried by the concierge .
As to Groslow , he promised himself that on the following evening he would recover from D ’ Artagnan what he had lost to Porthos , and on leaving reminded the Gascon of his appointment .
Dantès continued his search .
The usher returned and made a sign to D ’ Artagnan to follow him .
“ But after all , ” asked Porthos , “ who is Milady ? ” “ A charming woman ! ” said Athos , sipping a glass of sparkling wine .
Mousqueton , at the head of them , wiped his eyes .
The slightest rustling of the foliage , the least whistling of the wind , attracted his attention , and drew the perspiration to his brow ; then he tremblingly fixed his ladder , and , not to lose a moment , placed his foot on the first step .
“ Yes. ” “ Where ? ” “ At the Louvre. ” “ Are you sure of it ? ” “ Perfectly sure. ” “ Who told you of it ? ” “ Madame de Lannoy , who is devoted to your Eminence , as you know. ” “ Why did she not let me know sooner ? ” “ Whether by chance or mistrust , the queen made Madame de Surgis sleep in her chamber , and detained her all day. ” “ Well , we are beaten !
As I told you , it is an old family jewel. ” “ And you—sold it ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , hesitatingly .
“ Yes , his mother. ” “ But does he know this secret , then ? ” “ I mistook him for a monk and revealed it to him in confession. ” “ Unhappy man ! ” cried Grimaud , whose face was covered with sweat at the bare idea of the evil results such a revelation might cause ; “ unhappy man , you named no one , I hope ? ” “ I pronounced no name , for I knew none , except his mother ’ s , as a young girl , and it was by this name that he recognized her , but he knows that his uncle was among her judges. ” Thus speaking , he fell back exhausted .
neither am I , ” said Porthos .
“ None. ” For a moment Dantès was speechless ; then he remembered that these caves might have been filled up by some accident , or even stopped up , for the sake of greater security , by Cardinal Spada .
Look well at his right hand , on which he has a large wound ; if you forgot his features , you would know him by that hand , into which fell , one by one , the gold pieces of the merchant El-Kobbir ! ” I know him !
“ And now , ” he said , “ after today , you will come and live with me ; you can occupy Haydée ’ s apartment , and my daughter will at least be replaced by my son. ” “ Haydée ? ” said Morrel , “ what has become of her ? ” “ She departed last night. ” “ To leave you ? ” “ To wait for me .
“ Now , my lord , give me , if you have not lost it , the ball—that which contained the letter. ” The duke took it from under his pillow and gave it to Grimaud .
Dantès was on his bed .
Judge if I should not put myself under its protection. ” Flattery was at that period very current , and M. de Tréville loved incense as well as a king , or even a cardinal .
The pleasure of satisfied pride was necessary to her domination .
The count watched him with a feeling of compassion , and when he had completely disappeared , read as follows : “ The French officer in the service of Ali Pasha of Yanina alluded to three weeks since in _l ’ Impartial_ , who not only surrendered the castle of Yanina , but sold his benefactor to the Turks , styled himself truly at that time Fernand , as our esteemed contemporary states ; but he has since added to his Christian name a title of nobility and a family name .
“ You seem incredulous , ” said Monte Cristo , who repeated to Ali in the Arabic language what he had just been saying to Baptistin in French .
Besides , you will strike at the throat , Porthos ; it kills as quickly and prevents all outcry. ” “ Very good , ” said Porthos ; “ it will be a nice little throat cutting. ” “ Horrible , horrible , ” exclaimed Athos .
As he had seen Milady on board a vessel at the moment he was leaving England , he suspected that it was , almost without a doubt , on account of the diamond studs .
Suddenly a distant sound of rapidly advancing wheels was heard , and almost immediately a carriage appeared , drawn by a pair of wild , ungovernable horses , while the terrified coachman strove in vain to restrain their furious speed .
All the world was occupied with the ceremony , so that neither the chariot nor the precautions taken by those who were within it had been observed .
The Telegraph M. and Madame de Villefort found on their return that the Count of Monte Cristo , who had come to visit them in their absence , had been ushered into the drawing-room , and was still awaiting them there .
You are afraid , are you ?
Franz dressed himself , and went out , telling his host that he was going to pass the night at the Duke of Bracciano ’ s .
“ No , sir. ” “ And I think a glass of wine will not be disagreeable to you ? ” “ A glass of wine will be extremely welcome. ” “ The fish bites—the fish bites ! ” whispered the Gascon to Porthos .
This done , instead of leaving the door fastened , he drew back the bolts and even placed the door ajar , as though he had left the room , forgetting to close it , and slipping into the chimney like a man accustomed to that kind of gymnastic exercise , after replacing the chimney-board , which represented Achilles with Deidamia , and effacing the very marks of his feet upon the ashes , he commenced climbing the hollow tunnel , which afforded him the only means of escape left .
It is not true , ” said Milady , in a tone of voice so firm , and with a countenance so unchanged , that if D ’ Artagnan had not been in such perfect possession of the fact , he would have doubted .
The night gradually drew on , and the foliage in the garden assumed a deeper hue .
“ Of Aramis , yes , since he has become an abbé .
Get down into the longboat. ” “ That is , when I have lighted the match ? ” “ I will undertake that .
“ My opinion is that on the ground the drunken man was not intoxicated. ” They continued at their best speed for two hours , although the horses were so fatigued that it was to be feared they would soon refuse service .
“ Remember at a later period and at a certain moment , if any mischance should happen to you , ” said Richelieu , significantly , “ that it was I who came to seek you , and that I did all in my power to prevent this misfortune befalling you. ” “ I shall entertain , whatever may happen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , placing his hand upon his breast and bowing , “ an eternal gratitude toward your Eminence for that which you now do for me. ” “ Well , let it be , then , as you have said , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ; we shall see each other again after the campaign .
“ Well , monsieur , ” said Planchet , who had observed his master grow red and pale successively , “ did I not guess truly ?
I shall be fearfully preoccupied with my outfit .
You are gentlemen , and I am a poor innkeeper .
He is going to turn his house into a _Badhaus_ , as the Germans term it .
Milady remained for some minutes in the same position , for she thought they might perhaps be examining her through the keyhole ; she then slowly raised her head , which had resumed its formidable expression of menace and defiance , ran to the door to listen , looked out of her window , and returning to bury herself again in her large armchair , she reflected .
I will keep twenty to hold in check the mob ; go , and lose not a moment .
pushed from him violently the table at which he was sitting .
“ What are you about ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ You are not hurt ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
The article was not inserted by me—I was not even aware of it ; but you have , by the step you have taken , called my attention to the paragraph in question , and it will remain until it shall be either contradicted or confirmed by someone who has a right to do so. ” “ Sir , ” said Albert , rising , “ I will do myself the honor of sending my seconds to you , and you will be kind enough to arrange with them the place of meeting and the weapons. ” “ Certainly , my dear sir. ” “ And this evening , if you please , or tomorrow at the latest , we will meet. ” “ No , no , I will be on the ground at the proper time ; but in my opinion ( and I have a right to dictate the preliminaries , as it is I who have received the provocation ) —in my opinion the time ought not to be yet .
“ Listen , if you please , till I have finished speaking , ” replied Monte Cristo .
Barcelona has risen in his favor. ” All that evening nothing was spoken of but the foresight of Danglars , who had sold his shares , and of the luck of the stock-jobber , who only lost five hundred thousand francs by such a blow .
Monsieur Duke , I must have those letters ! ” “ Sire , notwithstanding— ” “ Monsieur Duke , at whatever price it may be , I will have them. ” “ I would , however , beg your Majesty to observe— ” “ Do you , then , also join in betraying me , Monsieur Cardinal , by thus always opposing my will ?
A despairing cry escaped the pale lips of Mercédès ; the old man sank into a chair .
“ But now you are happy ? ” “ Doubtless , ” replied the count , “ since no one hears me complain. ” “ And your present happiness , has it softened your heart ? ” “ My present happiness equals my past misery , ” said the count .
You will assist me in the work , will you not ? ” “ Most undoubtedly .
“ Go , then , and find them. ” “ What shall I say to them by way of inducement to serve your eminence ? ” “ You know them better than I .
At last , one day , Emmanuel came to his wife , who had just finished making up the accounts .
But to die ?
Everything conspired to prove to D ’ Artagnan that his presentiments had not deceived him , and that a great misfortune had happened .
“ What is to be done ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Villefort merited punishment for what he had done to you , and , perhaps , to others .
Planchet addressed the officer with a fine Flemish phrase ; the officer replied in words that belonged to no language at all , and the bargain was concluded ; Madeleine ’ s brother entered D ’ Artagnan ’ s service .
“ Bricconi ! ” muttered he .
Listen to me .
Milady smiled with joy .
Yes , Athos , I know what you mean : we shall do very well at the Parpaillot. ” “ Let us go to the Parpaillot , then , for here the walls are like sheets of paper. ” D ’ Artagnan , who was accustomed to his friend ’ s manner of acting , and who perceived immediately , by a word , a gesture , or a sign from him , that the circumstances were serious , took Athos ’ s arm , and went out without saying anything .
This is the second time that Monsieur d ’ Artagnan has been in England .
By a movement for which he could scarcely account to himself , the young Catalan placed his hand on the knife at his belt .
Arrived at the angle of a street , he pointed to a small house , isolated , solitary , and dismal .
The solicitors arrived at this moment and arranged their scrawled papers on the velvet cloth embroidered with gold which covered the table prepared for the signature ; it was a gilt table supported on lions ’ claws .
Then , as they had been accustomed to do , they had recourse to M. de Tréville , who made some advances on their pay ; but these advances could not go far with three Musketeers who were already much in arrears and a Guardsman who as yet had no pay at all .
“ Where the devil shall I say that he is , so that he can not try to rejoin him ? ” thought D ’ Artagnan .
You have told me how you talk to him and how he answers you ; I shall very soon learn that language by signs , Valentine , and I promise you solemnly , that instead of despair , it is happiness that awaits us. ” “ Oh , see , Maximilian , see the power you have over me , you almost make me believe you ; and yet , what you tell me is madness , for my father will curse me—he is inflexible—he will never pardon me .
Deuce take ’ em , what a popular commotion ! ” continued the giant , in his quiet manner ; “ but I knocked down more than twenty with the hilt of Balizarde .
The fact was , that Andrea , at war with society ever since his youth , was quite as deep as a gendarme , even though he were advanced to the rank of brigadier , and quite prepared for the fire , he had climbed out on the roof and was crouching down against the chimney-pots .
“ Yes , he has entered. ” “ It is for you or me ! ” “ My God , how agitated you seem ! ” “ Yes , I admit it .
Stand here , don ’ t stir , turn your back to the road and wait for me. ” Having thus spoken , D ’ Artagnan cleared the ditch by the roadside and crossed the plain so as to wind around the village .
Has he gone intending not to return ? ” “ Undoubtedly ; —at ten o ’ clock at night his horses took him to the barrier of Charenton ; there a post-chaise was waiting for him—he entered it with his valet de chambre , saying that he was going to Fontainebleau. ” “ Then what did you mean—— ” “ Stay—he left a letter for me. ” “ A letter ? ” “ Yes ; read it. ” And the baroness took from her pocket a letter which she gave to Debray .
Yours will be returned to you tomorrow .
Peppino was decidedly an epicure .
I should say that you were the happiest man alive at this instant. ” “ And that is the very thing that alarms me , ” returned Dantès .
whip !
General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works 1.A .
Chapter 7 .
There was a moment of silence ; but at length the two Englishmen felt ashamed to draw back , and the angrier one descended the five or six steps which led to the cellar , and gave a kick against the door enough to split a wall .
Touches upon the Strange Effects a Half-pistole may have .
Amongst us a simpleton , possessed by the demon of hate or cupidity , who has an enemy to destroy , or some near relation to dispose of , goes straight to the grocer ’ s or druggist ’ s , gives a false name , which leads more easily to his detection than his real one , and under the pretext that the rats prevent him from sleeping , purchases five or six grammes of arsenic—if he is really a cunning fellow , he goes to five or six different druggists or grocers , and thereby becomes only five or six times more easily traced ; —then , when he has acquired his specific , he administers duly to his enemy , or near kinsman , a dose of arsenic which would make a mammoth or mastodon burst , and which , without rhyme or reason , makes his victim utter groans which alarm the entire neighborhood .
Franz and Albert had brought to Rome letters of introduction to them , and their first question on his arrival was to inquire the whereabouts of his travelling companion .
He went afterward to the innkeeper and bought from him two hundred trusses at the same price .
“ In France , sire , —at a small port , near Antibes , in the Gulf of Juan. ” “ The usurper landed in France , near Antibes , in the Gulf of Juan , two hundred and fifty leagues from Paris , on the 1st of March , and you only acquired this information today , the 3rd of March !
Bonacieux , “ what is that noise ? ” “ That of either our friends or our enemies , ” said Milady , with her terrible coolness .
The carriages that drove up to the door were compelled to turn , to avoid a fountain that played in a basin of rockwork , —an ornament that had excited the jealousy of the whole quarter , and had gained for the place the appellation of _The Little Versailles_ .
Without the loss of an instant , the carriage was placed on board and the two travellers embarked without delay .
Grimaud begins his Functions .
she was poisoned on my account. ” “ That ’ s all you know of him ? ” asked Mazarin .
Ah ; Dantès , my friend , you are not yet registered number one on board the good ship _Pharaon_ ; ” then turning towards Edmond , who was walking away , “ A pleasant journey , ” he cried .
“ Gentlemen , ” said he , in a tone strangely firm for a servant speaking to his masters under such solemn circumstances , — “ gentlemen , M. Noirtier de Villefort wishes to speak immediately to M. Franz de Quesnel , baron d ’ Épinay. ” He , as well as the notary , that there might be no mistake in the person , gave all his titles to the bridegroom elect .
“ In case any evil should happen to me , ” said Bragelonne .
No ; my pride is to see the accused pale , agitated , and as though beaten out of all composure by the fire of my eloquence. ” Renée uttered a smothered exclamation .
I had only an indistinct understanding of what was passing around me .
“ Will you go away from here ? ” demanded the Swiss , stamping violently , like a man who begins to be seriously angry .
“ Alas ! ” he said , “ I am then to die ?
“ You are going , sir ? ” “ Yes , ” said Cromwell .
As it is not our intention to give a journal of the siege , but on the contrary only to describe such of the events of it as are connected with the story we are relating , we will content ourselves with saying in two words that the expedition succeeded , to the great astonishment of the king and the great glory of the cardinal .
Debray is with madame. ” Danglars nodded his head ; then , turning to Monte Cristo , said , “ M .
“ Four hundred , at a pistole each , four hundred pistoles. ” “ Yes , ” interposed Porthos , “ four hundred pistoles ; but who is to make four hundred pistoles ? ” “ A pistole is not enough , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ ’ tis worth a louis. ” “ What is worth a louis ? ” “ Four hundred , at a louis each , make four hundred louis. ” “ Four hundred ? ” said Porthos .
The ball had entered his breast through a notch in the cuirass .
“ What do you fear ? ” “ That we may be discovered. ” “ The door is locked. ” “ They may tell us to open it. ” “ They may if they like , but we will not. ” “ You are a perfect Amazon , Eugénie ! ” And the two young girls began to heap into a trunk all the things they thought they should require .
I remember well that the oars made no noise whatever in striking the water , and when I leaned over to ascertain the cause I saw that they were muffled with the sashes of our Palikares.14 Besides the rowers , the boat contained only the women , my father , mother , Selim , and myself .
Now , as we are wont to complete ourselves each by all the rest and to depend on one another for assistance , as one calls his other hand to aid the first , I looked around instinctively to see if Porthos was there ; for I had seen you , Aramis , with the king , and you , count , I knew would be under the scaffold , and for that reason I forgive you , ” he added , offering Athos his hand , “ for you must have suffered much .
It was a grain of a reddish color , which dissolved immediately .
“ Come , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Porthos , “ bid adieu to your sword and go with me to Pierrefonds , to Bracieux , or to Du Vallon .
Oh , if you are struck in France , if you die in France , if I could imagine that your love for me was the cause of your death , I could not console myself ; I should run mad .
I embrace you .
In my country the ladies do without chambermaids .
But when the cowardly insulter spat in the face of the captive monarch Athos grasped his dagger .
As he came near the hotel , Franz saw a man in the middle of the street .
“ The last attack I had , ” said he , “ lasted but half an hour , and after it I was hungry , and got up without help ; now I can move neither my right arm nor leg , and my head seems uncomfortable , which shows that there has been a suffusion of blood on the brain .
Then , when De Winter rose to take leave : “ Listen , my lord , ” said the queen ; “ I have preserved this diamond cross which came from my mother , and this order of St. Michael which came from my husband .
“ Sharpen your sword , baron , load your pistols , and give some corn to the horses , for I will answer for it , something lightning-like will happen ere to-morrow. ” “ But , stop ; do you think it can be a trap that they are laying for us ? ” suggested Porthos , incessantly thinking how his greatness must be irksome to inferior people .
He traversed the island , after having followed the traces which the footsteps of the giant have left , and re-embarked for Marciana .
“ Well , then , to my health !
“ Will you speak ? ” he said .
“ The king is with us and his generals are the Duke of Orleans and the Prince de Condé , although I must add ’ tis almost impossible now to know to which party any one belongs. ” “ Yes , ” answered Athos , “ but his right place is in our ranks , with the Prince de Conti , De Beaufort , D ’ Elbeuf , and De Bouillon ; but , sir , supposing that the conference is broken off—are you going to try to take Charenton ? ” “ Such are my orders. ” “ Sir , since you command the cavalry—— ” “ Pardon me , I am commander-in-chief. ” “ So much the better .
You think the result of this blow has been to produce an ordinary grief , and you would cure it by an ordinary remedy—change of scene. ” And Morrel dropped his head with disdainful incredulity .
You are a noble-minded woman , and it was your grief that disarmed me .
I was expressing to my father my fears that he had wanted many things in my absence , and to convince me he emptied his purse on the table .
Let us hasten to say that in private the genial side descended to the level of the other , so that generally the indulgent man disappeared to give place to the brutal husband and domineering father .
Poor young creature !
The servant understood them .
I will make myself acquainted with his intentions and will submit to them .
Porthos placed his hand on the pistols .
are you sent by General Oliver Cromwell , the most illustrious captain of the age ? ” “ I have this instant left him , ” replied Mordaunt , alighting , in order to give his horse to a soldier to hold .
The host and his wife were standing on the steps , whilst the unhappy man seemed to suffer dreadful pain and yet to be concerned only to know if he was followed by the monk .
My mother inherited an estate from her husband , you have assassinated her ; my name would have secured me the paternal estate , you have deprived me of it ; you have despoiled me of my fortune .
Chapter XLVIII .
Is it broken off ? ” “ Yesterday morning , it appears , Franz declined the honor. ” “ Indeed ?
Interrogate me , I entreat you ! ” “ Where is your wife , in the first place ? ” “ Why , did not I tell you she had been stolen from me ? ” “ Yes , but yesterday at five o ’ clock in the afternoon , thanks to you , she escaped. ” “ My wife escaped ! ” cried Bonacieux .
What are Yanina and its vizier to you , Edmond ?
I had been fifteen days without seeing a human face , and had been left to brutalize myself in the company of bottles. ” “ That was no reason for staking my diamond ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , closing his hand with a nervous spasm .
“ What is the matter with you , my friend ? ” asked the latter .
No ?
Chapter XXXIII .
“ Where is my son ? ” asked Villefort ; “ let him be removed from the house , that he may not see—— ” “ Master Edward is not downstairs , sir , ” replied the valet .
In an instant he was placed in the stern-sheets of the boat , between the gendarmes , while the officer stationed himself at the bow ; a shove sent the boat adrift , and four sturdy oarsmen impelled it rapidly towards the Pilon .
Thanks to what Aramis had told him , D ’ Artagnan , who knew already that Porthos called himself Du Vallon , was now aware that he styled himself , from his estate , De Bracieux ; and that he was , on account of this estate , engaged in a lawsuit with the Bishop of Noyon .
But that has passed away as suddenly as it came , and is forgotten. ” “ I can easily suppose , sir , that her majesty has forgotten it amid the fetes and the courtiers of the Palais Royal , but I who have passed those years in the Bastile—— ” “ Ah !
The sight of marks renewed Edmond fondest hopes .
What an idea !
This son is named Andrea Cavalcanti .
“ He is going to fall ! ” cried Morrel .
This fabulous event formed but a link in a long chain of marvels .
The result was that even if the king ’ s troops remained quietly in their camp , it was evident that some day or other , Buckingham , who only continued in the Isle from obstinacy , would be obliged to raise the siege .
“ Laporte , place the king in bed. ” Laporte placed the king , dressed as he was , in the bed and then covered him as far as the shoulders with the sheet .
He made a movement of surprise and said : “ Father , you are very young. ” “ Men who bear my robe have no age , ” replied the monk , dryly .
It is understood—is it not ? ” “ But , count , do you remember that the 5th of October—— ” “ Child , ” replied the count , “ not to know the value of a man ’ s word !
Thanks to the spurs , which served as stirrups , in a moment we were perched upon the croupe ; we were well placed and saw everything .
The fight was therefore prolonged for some seconds ; but at length D ’ Artagnan dropped his sword , which was broken in two pieces by the blow of a stick .
She screamed aloud ; then running to the door exclaimed : “ Help , help ! ” 50083m “ What is the matter ? ” asked M. d ’ Avrigny , at the foot of the stairs , it being the hour he usually visited her .
Athos , wounded anew by Cahusac , became evidently paler , but did not give way a foot .
The Prince de Marsillac—my old friend—will recommend our young friend to Madame de Longueville , who will give him a letter to her brother , the prince , who loves her too tenderly not to do what she wishes immediately. ” “ Well , that will do charmingly , ” said the count ; “ but may I beg that the greatest haste may be made , for I have reasons for wishing the vicomte not to sleep longer than to-morrow night in Paris ! ” “ Do you wish it known that you are interested about him , monsieur le comte ? ” “ Better for him in future that he should be supposed never to have seen me. ” “ Oh , sir ! ” cried Raoul .
Athos had even gone so far as to question M. de Tréville—a thing which , considering the habitual reticence of the worthy Musketeer , had very much astonished his captain .
Besides the pleasure , there is always remorse from the indulgence of our passions , and , after all , what have you men to fear from all this ?
Did the Romans eat them ? ” said the gardener— “ ate dormice ? ” “ I have read so in Petronius , ” said the count .
At one of the extremities of the camp , near an immense tent , in which the Scottish officers were holding a kind of council , presided over by Lord Leven , their commander , a man attired as a cavalier lay sleeping on the turf , his right hand extended over his sword .
They reached the queen ’ s apartments , but were compelled to stop in the ante-chamber , since her majesty was at that moment giving audience to gentlemen bringing her news from England .
On my side I have two sure men , who have been in action with my father .
It was easy to do so , and as I had my boat and a lading to take in at sea , everything favored my project .
“ Do you permit us to open this casket ? ” asked the notary .
“ Yes , gentlemen , in the king ’ s room .
“ You were asking , then ? ” said the host in Spanish .
“ Well , then , since she has left Paris , and you are sure of it , D ’ Artagnan , nothing prevents me , and I am ready to follow you .
I am sure he will look like the Great Mogul ! ” They made a halt for an hour to refresh their horses .
They waited upwards of ten minutes .
From a distance they perceived Aramis , seated in a melancholy manner at his window , looking out , like Sister Anne , at the dust in the horizon .
“ And now , ” said Morrel , “ leave me alone , and endeavor to keep your mother and sister away. ” “ Will you not see my sister once more ? ” asked Maximilian .
Oh , be assured , if the memory of my brother were not sacred to me , you should rot in a state dungeon or satisfy the curiosity of sailors at Tyburn .
And he touched his mule .
M. Villefort , I beg to remind you my mother speaks to you. ” “ If the marquise will deign to repeat the words I but imperfectly caught , I shall be delighted to answer , ” said M. de Villefort .
Consider , by becoming a gardener I effectually screen our meetings from all suspicion or danger. ” 30053m “ I beseech of you , Maximilian , to cease trifling , and tell me what you really mean. ” “ Simply , that having ascertained that the piece of ground on which I stand was to let , I made application for it , was readily accepted by the proprietor , and am now master of this fine crop of lucern .
We hastened , therefore , to obtain permission to print it , with the view of presenting ourselves someday with the pack of others at the doors of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres , if we should not succeed—a very probable thing , by the by—in gaining admission to the Académie Française with our own proper pack .
“ If I once went up those stairs .
I followed him thither , and I saw him enter the house where we now are , only , instead of entering by the great door that looks into the street , he came on horseback , or in his carriage , left the one or the other at the little inn , and entered by the gate you see there. ” Monte Cristo made a sign with his head to show that he could discern in the darkness the door to which Bertuccio alluded .
“ Unhappy man , ” cried he , wringing his hands in his turn ; “ you love Valentine , —that daughter of an accursed race ! ” Never had Morrel witnessed such an expression—never had so terrible an eye flashed before his face—never had the genius of terror he had so often seen , either on the battle-field or in the murderous nights of Algeria , shaken around him more dreadful fire .
Oh , Aramis ! ” continued Athos , shaking his head mournfully , “ upon my soul , you make me the most miserable of men ; you disenchant a heart not wholly dead to friendship .
“ Adieu , my dear cousin .
The _facchino_ follows the prince , the Transteverin the citizen , everyone blowing , extinguishing , relighting .
He was too late ; Milady had stabbed herself .
Has not some sage said , ‘ Nothing too much ’ ?
Franz was not sufficiently egotistical to stop Albert in the middle of an adventure that promised to prove so agreeable to his curiosity and so flattering to his vanity .
“ A bark ! ” all cried together .
no doubt you come to join the princes ! ” “ As thou seest , Planchet , ” said Aramis , whilst Athos smiled on seeing what important rank was held in the city militia by the former comrade of Mousqueton , Bazin and Grimaud .
Whenever this occurred , although it proceeded only from goodwill and a desire to see the king and queen , Anne looked at D ’ Artagnan anxiously .
M. de Saint-Méran had been unwell for some days ; still , the idea of seeing our dear Valentine again inspired him with courage , and notwithstanding his illness he would leave .
He found the count standing before some copies of Albano and Fattore that had been passed off to the banker as originals ; but which , mere copies as they were , seemed to feel their degradation in being brought into juxtaposition with the gaudy colors that covered the ceiling .
The bearer of this letter will tell you , madame , what I dare not trust to pen and paper and the risks of transit .
A recollection of Athos came into her mind .
The island was utterly deserted , and bore no evidence of having been visited since he went away ; his treasure was just as he had left it .
“ I have given you the choice between America and Tyburn , ” replied Lord de Winter .
D ’ Artagnan and Porthos withdrew to a corner of the cabinet .
The disappearance of Mazarin was not as yet generally known .
I have three friends who are more meritorious and more worthy— ” “ You are a brave youth , D ’ Artagnan , ” interrupted the cardinal , tapping him familiarly on the shoulder , charmed at having vanquished this rebellious nature .
Bazin became a lay brother .
Go and tell M. Albert that , and he may know what to answer you. ” “ Oh , no , no , ” said the general , smiling faintly , “ I did not come for that purpose ; you are right .
But was it my father ’ s ring ?
“ Yes ?
On the morrow , at break of day , they were still three or four leagues from the coast of England .
“ Have you a good horse , Monsieur de Bragelonne ? ” “ My horse was killed this morning , my lord , and I am mounted provisionally on my lackey ’ s. ” “ Choose for yourself in my stables the horse you like best .
Excuse me , excuse me , but I owe this money to the charity fund , —a deposit which I promised to pay this morning. ” “ Oh , well , then , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I am not particular about these five notes , pay me in a different form ; I wished , from curiosity , to take these , that I might be able to say that without any advice or preparation the house of Danglars had paid me five millions without a minute ’ s delay ; it would have been remarkable .
From here to Paris it is a hundred and forty leagues ; before our letter was at Angers we should be in a dungeon. ” “ As to remitting a letter with safety to her Majesty , ” said Aramis , coloring , “ I will take that upon myself .
START : FULL LICENSE THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works , by using or distributing this work ( or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” ) , you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license .
I leave you , therefore , as I took you , —rich , but little respected .
20061m “ Saved , my child ! ” said Morrel ; “ what do you mean ? ” “ Yes , saved—saved !
I undertook it because it was what my captain had bade me do .
“ Oh , come , gentlemen , my master is ill ! ” The three friends hastened toward D ’ Artagnan , who , instead of being ill , ran toward his horse .
And she began to shriek more loudly , clinging to the bars of the window : “ Help !
“ Can we do anything for you ? ” asked Athos .
If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook , complying with the trademark license is very easy .
At the outer door the steward paused .
Tomorrow , at the Hôtel Field of the Cloth of Gold , a lackey in black and red will wait for your reply. ” “ Oh ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ this is rather warm ; it appears that Milady and I are anxious about the health of the same person .
In life , our greatest preoccupation is death ; is it not then , curious to study the different ways by which the soul and body can part ; and how , according to their different characters , temperaments , and even the different customs of their countries , different persons bear the transition from life to death , from existence to annihilation ?
“ This evening , ” said the governor , when the task was ended .
I wished to run to the window and call for help , but my legs refused their office .
Tomorrow you will go .
“ Yes. ” “ But the contract ? ” The same smile returned .
“ Well , ” said he , “ let us see , gentlemen , what are his Eminence ’ s commands , ” and D ’ Artagnan unsealed the letter and read , “ M .
The women had already fled , taking refuge in Vitry ; only a few men remained .
Hush , we are flying ! ’ I did not understand .
Diavolaccio , seeing himself thus favored by fortune , burst into a loud laugh .
It seems to me that you are in more danger riding than on foot. ” “ Wait , ” said Caderousse , “ we shall see. ” He then took the greatcoat with the large collar , which the groom had left behind in the tilbury , and put it on his back ; then he took off Cavalcanti ’ s hat , which he placed upon his own head , and finally he assumed the careless attitude of a servant whose master drives himself .
Think often of Raoul .
The Villa of San-Felice took fire in the rooms adjoining the very apartment of the lovely Carmela .
Tell me , why does a steward rob his master ? ” “ Because , I suppose , it is his nature to do so , for the love of robbing. ” “ You are mistaken ; it is because he has a wife and family , and ambitious desires for himself and them .
Have you a carriage ? ” “ No. ” “ That is of no consequence ; I always have one ready , day and night. ” “ Always ready ? ” “ Yes .
Just think .
The first four furloughs granted , as may be imagined , were to our four friends .
“ Well ? ” asked Danglars .
The four or five remaining hours before nine o ’ clock arrived , Andrea employed in riding , paying visits , —designed to induce those of whom he had spoken to appear at the banker ’ s in their gayest equipages , —dazzling them by promises of shares in schemes which have since turned every brain , and in which Danglars was just taking the initiative .
“ I address myself , therefore , first to the benevolence of your majesty , that I may know what has become of my friends , reserving to myself , if necessary , the right of appealing hereafter to your justice. ” “ Sir , ” replied Anne , with a degree of haughtiness which to certain persons became impertinence , “ this is the reason that you trouble me in the midst of so many absorbing concerns !
I have come in the name of your wife and daughter and of the children you have still in London , and I say to you , ‘ Live , sire , ’ —it is the will of Heaven. ” The king raised himself , buckled on his belt , and passing his handkerchief over his moist forehead , said : “ Well , what is to be done ? ” “ Sire , have you in the army one regiment on which you can implicitly rely ? ” “ Winter , ” said the king , “ do you believe in the fidelity of yours ? ” “ Sire , they are but men , and men are become both weak and wicked .
“ You know , ” said the queen , “ that they want to take the king away from me ? ” “ Alas !
The door was scarcely closed when Albert bent his steps to his mother ’ s room ; and , no one being there to announce him , he advanced to her bedchamber , and distressed by what he saw and guessed , stopped for one moment at the door .
Freed from the usual formalities by the affable smile and gallant manners of an old governor of the port , who kissed her hand , she only remained long enough at Boulogne to put into the post a letter , conceived in the following terms : “ _To his Eminence Monseigneur the Cardinal Richelieu , in his camp before La Rochelle_ .
“ There , you see it will not take long. ” “ Yes ; but—— ” “ Do this , and you will have nectarines and all the rest. ” The shot told ; red with fever , while the large drops fell from his brow , the man executed , one after the other , the three signs given by the count , in spite of the frightful contortions of the right-hand correspondent , who , not understanding the change , began to think the gardener had gone mad .
“ Really , my dear count , ” said Morcerf , “ what I admire in you is , not so much your riches , for perhaps there are people even wealthier than yourself , nor is it only your wit , for Beaumarchais might have possessed as much , —but it is your manner of being served , without any questions , in a moment , in a second ; it is as if they guessed what you wanted by your manner of ringing , and made a point of keeping everything you can possibly desire in constant readiness. ” “ What you say is perhaps true ; they know my habits .
He thanked the governor , bowed , and departed .
Really , I never saw such an infatuation for music ; it is quite ridiculous for a young lady of fashion. ” Debray smiled .
“ Ah !
You who have chateau , meadows , mountains , woods—you who have forty thousand francs a year—you—are—not—happy ? ” “ My dear friend , all those things I have , but I am a hermit in the midst of superfluity. ” “ Surrounded , I suppose , only by clodhoppers , with whom you could not associate. ” Porthos turned rather pale and drank off a large glass of wine .
Villefort , maddened with horror , stepped back to the threshhold of the door , fixing his eyes on the corpse .
When he reached the wicket of the Louvre , he turned to the left , galloped across the Carrousel , passed through the Rue Saint-Roch , and , issuing from the Rue de la Michodière , he arrived at M. Danglars ’ door just at the same time that Villefort ’ s landau , after having deposited him and his wife at the Faubourg Saint-Honoré , stopped to leave the baroness at her own house .
Coquenard .
“ Come , ” said he , “ this matter will want a good deal of talking over ; a retractation is always a serious thing , you know .
“ Can he be afraid of this boy ? ” But an imperious glance from the stranger stopped him short ; he bowed humbly and retired .
Nevertheless it was plain the letter came from Milady .
“ Do you promise ? ” “ I swear to you I will. ” “ It is well .
“ I had announced you beforehand to my friends as an enchanter of the _Arabian Nights_ , a wizard of the Middle Ages ; but the Parisians are so subtle in paradoxes that they mistake for caprices of the imagination the most incontestable truths , when these truths do not form a part of their daily existence .
Mordaunt bowed with a smile of triumphant ferocity .
The little apartment was charming for its taste and neatness ; but in spite of himself , his eyes were directed to that door which Kitty said led to Milady ’ s chamber .
“ But to return to these registers. ” “ True , this story has diverted our attention from them .
Come !
He was a dead man ; and on my honor , if I had discovered that it was his son , I should have regretted having killed him. ” “ Ah !
This charge was so fierce , so skillfully conducted , that Chanleu was almost surrounded .
How great is the power of a woman who has made so courageous a resolution !
He uttered an exclamation of delight , for the large handwriting of Porthos was discernible , and underneath some lines traced by his worthy spouse .
Believe me , you ought now to take a rest .
At last a nightingale , lost in a thicket of shrubs , in the midst of its most melodious cadences had fluted low and lower into stillness and fallen asleep .
true .
I have believed it was much easier to descend from the whole to a part than to ascend from a part to the whole .
All his funds amounted to 6,000 or 8,000 francs , his bills receivable up to the 5th to 4,000 or 5,000 , which , making the best of everything , gave him 14,000 francs to meet debts amounting to 287,500 francs .
Mousqueton ran thither , hearing the noise .
The queen , who was scarcely less afraid of Monsieur de Beaufort than the cardinal himself , and who was almost as superstitious as he was , made him repeat word for word all La Ramee ’ s praises of his deputy .
You have not by chance married a Protestant for a third husband , have you ? ” “ Explain yourself , my Lord , ” replied the prisoner , with majesty ; “ for though I hear your words , I declare I do not understand them. ” “ Then you have no religion at all ; I like that best , ” replied Lord de Winter , laughing .
When one is eating , ideas flow easily .
“ What ails our friend ? ” said Aramis , “ he resembles one of Dante ’ s damned , whose neck Apollyon has dislocated and who are ever looking at their heels .
“ If I am happy in an error , do not have the cruelty to lift me from it .
is it not a crime to bury a living child in a garden ? ” cried Monte Cristo .
Still , as five o ’ clock approached , and the carriage was momentarily expected by the count , the indication of more than common impatience and uneasiness might be observed in his manner .
Dantès was then guilty , and now he is innocent , and it is as much my duty to free him as it was to condemn him. ” Villefort thus forestalled any danger of an inquiry , which , however improbable it might be , if it did take place would leave him defenceless .
Chapter LIII .
Directly afterwards the moon rose .
“ I understand , ” said Morrel ; “ I am to wait. ” “ Yes. ” “ But delay may ruin our plan , sir , ” replied the young man .
Thank you , Parry. ” When the moment arrived the king followed his guards out of the hall .
D ’ Artagnan dressed himself , and Athos did the same .
My death , then , will not be to her as the death of a stranger ! ” Laporte burst into tears .
“ We thought it dead , ” he repeated ; “ I placed it in the chest , which was to take the place of a coffin ; I descended to the garden , I dug a hole , and then flung it down in haste .
In truth , my dear Captain , I have a great mind to take away your commission and give it to Mademoiselle de Chemerault , to whom I promised an abbey .
“ Ah ! ” exclaimed Aramis , “ that is the nephew , the monk , and the son of Milady , as he says himself. ” “ Alas , yes , ” murmured De Winter .
I have made up the loss of blood by nutrition .
“ Now , jump down , Athos. ” Athos jumped and disappeared on the other side of the wall .
Must you know all ? ” “ Absolutely ; and rather from your lips than another ’ s. ” “ Muster up all your courage , then , for never have you required it more. ” Albert passed his hand over his forehead , as if to try his strength , as a man who is preparing to defend his life proves his shield and bends his sword .
That is my failing—a capital failing , I admit ; but with that exception , I am a good drinker. ” Athos spoke this in so natural a manner that D ’ Artagnan was shaken in his conviction .
D ’ Artagnan , who had no settled habits of his own , as he came from his province into the midst of a world quite new to him , fell easily into the habits of his friends .
“ Come , ” said he , laughing , “ there are all my hopes about to be destroyed. ” “ How so ? ” asked Beauchamp .
As long as your brother was with me he kept me up ; but he is gone and can no longer send us news of himself , either to me or to your father .
Speak , speak , in Heaven ’ s name ! ” And Raoul fell back trembling upon his chair .
Those bearing plumed hats and gold swords were stopped and made to cry , “ Long live Broussel ! ” “ Down with Mazarin ! ” and whoever refused to comply with this ceremony was hooted at , spat upon and even beaten .
In my turn I uttered a cry , but a cry of joy .
One was a young man of three or four-and-twenty , who was in love with M. Morrel ’ s daughter , and had remained with him in spite of the efforts of his friends to induce him to withdraw ; the other was an old one-eyed cashier , called “ Cocles , ” or “ Cock-eye , ” a nickname given him by the young men who used to throng this vast now almost deserted bee-hive , and which had so completely replaced his real name that he would not , in all probability , have replied to anyone who addressed him by it .
“ Sir , ” cried the groom , “ they have traversed six leagues and have only been unsaddled half an hour. ” “ Half an hour ’ s rest is enough , ” replied the Gascon .
The stranger , then perceiving that the matter went beyond raillery , drew his sword , saluted his adversary , and seriously placed himself on guard .
“ Come and open , then ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan to the man with the scythe , taking one of the pistols up by the muzzle and preparing to strike with the handle .
Absence severs as well as death , and if the walls of a prison were between Edmond and Mercédès they would be as effectually separated as if he lay under a tombstone. ” 0056m “ Yes ; but one gets out of prison , ” said Caderousse , who , with what sense was left him , listened eagerly to the conversation , “ and when one gets out and one ’ s name is Edmond Dantès , one seeks revenge—— ” “ What matters that ? ” muttered Fernand .
Chanleu , whose fire at one time repulsed the royal regiment , thought that the moment was come to pursue it ; but it was reformed and led again to the charge by the Duc de Chatillon in person .
His companions , horror-struck , could neither move nor cry out .
“ There , ” said he , drawing from the casket a large bow of blue ribbon all sparkling with diamonds , “ there are the precious studs which I have taken an oath should be buried with me .
But scarcely had he stepped out of his carriage when the porter met him with a parcel in his hand .
D ’ Artagnan replied that he had been sent thither by M. de Tréville to treat for a supply of horses , and that he had brought back four as specimens .
Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.F.3 , this work is provided to you ‘ AS-IS ’ , WITH NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND , EXPRESS OR IMPLIED , INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
The Abbé ’ s Chamber Chapter 18 .
But though I can not give my own name , not possessing one , I can tell them my father ’ s .
Milady listened with the greatest attention , and yet it was easily to be perceived , whatever effort she made to conceal her impressions , that this recital was not agreeable to her .
d ’ Aguillon , his mistress , and Mme .
If , when you have seen me again , you still persist—well , then you shall be free , and I myself will give you the weapon you desire. ” “ Well , ” said Milady , “ for you I will wait. ” “ Swear. ” “ I swear it , by our God .
Am I to put this construction on your visit ? ” “ Yes , if you will not consent to retract that infamous calumny. ” “ Wait a moment—no threats , if you please , M. Fernand Mondego , Vicomte de Morcerf ; I never allow them from my enemies , and therefore shall not put up with them from my friends .
But to you , at least , M. Debray , I need not give a further description , because to you my beautiful pair of dappled grays were well known .
“ Now , Pistache , my good dog , jump the height of this cane for Madame de Montbazon. ” “ But , ” interposed Monsieur de Chavigny , “ it seems to me that Pistache is only doing what other dogs have done when they jumped for Mademoiselle de Pons. ” “ Stop , ” said the duke , “ Pistache , jump for the queen. ” And he raised his cane six inches higher .
Scarcely , therefore , had the reflective Franz walked a hundred steps beneath the interior porticoes of the ruin , when , abandoning Albert to the guides ( who would by no means yield their prescriptive right of carrying their victims through the routine regularly laid down , and as regularly followed by them , but dragged the unconscious visitor to the various objects with a pertinacity that admitted of no appeal , beginning , as a matter of course , with the “ Lions ’ Den ” , the “ Hall of the Gladiators ” and finishing with “ Cæsar ’ s Podium ” ) , to escape a jargon and mechanical survey of the wonders by which he was surrounded , Franz ascended a half-dilapidated staircase , and , leaving them to follow their monotonous round , seated himself at the foot of a column , and immediately opposite a large aperture , which permitted him to enjoy a full and undisturbed view of the gigantic dimensions of the majestic ruin .
The noise of the door did not awaken her , and Monte Cristo gazed at her with affectionate regret .
The other grave is that of the man who met his death from the hand of Edmond Dantès .
Besides , this time , my visit has a motive. ” Milady trembled ; she thought Felton had told all .
Villefort , pale and agitated , ran to the window , put aside the curtain , and saw him pass , cool and collected , by two or three ill-looking men at the corner of the street , who were there , perhaps , to arrest a man with black whiskers , and a blue frock-coat , and hat with broad brim .
I remained in my ignorance , and the Count of Spada in his poverty .
do you not see that I reserve eighty francs for myself ?
should you like to be rich , and your own master ? ’ ” “ _Parbleu ! _ ” said the young man ; “ was it possible there could be two answers to such a question ? ” “ ‘ Take the post-chaise which you will find waiting at the Porte de Gênes , as you enter Nice ; pass through Turin , Chambéry , and Pont-de-Beauvoisin .
“ I love you also , _you ! _ ” said she , taking his hand .
“ I shall kneel down to pray ; do not strike then. ” “ When shall I strike ? ” “ When I shall lay my head on the block and say ‘ Remember ! ’ then strike boldly. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said the king to those around him , “ I leave you to brave the tempest ; I go before you to a kingdom which knows no storms .
When they reached the street , Aramis said : “ Well , Athos , what do you think ? ” “ Of whom ? ” “ Pardieu !
“ Ten kicks on his back ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ be off , you little villain , and forget not that I have your address. ” Friquet , who did not expect to be let off so cheaply , bounded off like a gazelle up the Quai a la Rue Dauphine , and disappeared .
I could kill an ox with a blow of my fist. ” “ Well , then , family affairs , perhaps ? ” “ Family !
40150m “ You understand me ? ” said the count .
It was on Thursday , the abbé ’ s reception day ; people went there in crowds .
He started , and the prisoner saw that start—for though her eyes were cast down , nothing escaped her .
“ The Gascon is the devil ! ” cried Athos ; “ nothing escapes him. ” “ The fact is , ” said Porthos , “ Aramis is of the same height , and something of the shape of the duke ; but it nevertheless appears to me that the dress of a Musketeer— ” “ I wore an enormous cloak , ” said Aramis .
The clock striking eight awoke her .
But the first was repugnant to him .
“ From that time he received all who came ; he had an excuse for not eating any more ; the doctor had put him on a diet. ” The abbé uttered a kind of groan .
Yet he did not leave a foot of this granite wall , as impenetrable as futurity , without strict scrutiny ; he did not see a fissure without introducing the blade of his hunting sword into it , or a projecting point on which he did not lean and press in the hopes it would give way .
Then , in addition to these concealed or public , secret or open wars , there were robbers , mendicants , Huguenots , wolves , and scoundrels , who made war upon everybody .
There are a few things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement .
Chapter LXXXVI .
My first business will be to dispose of this diamond. ” So saying , the abbé again drew the small box from his pocket , opened it , and contrived to hold it in such a light , that a bright flash of brilliant hues passed before the dazzled gaze of Caderousse .
The ball was given by the Count for the particular pleasure of his daughter Carmela , whom he adored .
“ Your holiness , ” said the curate , “ here is the person of whom I had the honor to speak to you. ” Planchet saluted in the manner of one accustomed to fine houses .
Still further , in spite of sword thrusts which weaken , and painful exercises which fatigue , he had become one of the most gallant frequenters of revels , one of the most insinuating lady ’ s men , one of the softest whisperers of interesting nothings of his day ; the _bonnes fortunes_ of de Tréville were talked of as those of M. de Bassompierre had been talked of twenty years before , and that was not saying a little .
“ Eh , egad , to give up Broussel as they demand !
“ Send away that fellow , Raoul , ” said the Gascon ; “ for if he ’ s a coward he will disgrace thee some day. ” “ Monsieur says I am coward , ” cried Olivain , “ because he wanted the other day to fight a cornet in Grammont ’ s regiment and I refused to accompany him. ” “ Monsieur Olivain , a lackey ought never to disobey , ” said D ’ Artagnan , sternly ; then taking him aside , he whispered to him : “ Thou hast done right ; thy master was in the wrong ; here ’ s a crown for thee , but should he ever be insulted and thou dost not let thyself be cut in quarters for him , I will cut out thy tongue .
And pray what would come to pass , supposing the king were five years older than he is ? ” “ As soon as ever the king comes of age he will issue his commands himself , and ’ tis far pleasanter to obey the grandson of Henry IV .
Indeed , her brain was only the seat of vague ideas , and confused forms , mingled with strange fancies , alone presented themselves before her eyes .
He recovered a little , reopened his eyes , and hope revived in all hearts .
He took the opportunity of calling out his guard , the Swiss troops and the musketeers , and he had planted them round the Palais Royal , on the quays , and on the Pont Neuf .
Milady has laid her complaints against me with that hypocritical grief which renders her so interesting , and this last offense has made the cup overflow. ” “ Fortunately , ” added he , “ my good friends are down yonder , and they will not allow me to be carried away without a struggle .
I am condemned ; leave me to my death. ” “ My king , ” said Aramis , “ they well may raise a scaffold , but they can not make an executioner. ” “ What do you mean ? ” asked the king .
Why , she did not know , but yet she did not the less feel that these reproaches were merited .
Several times , with terror , no doubt , the cold sweat burst from her burning brow .
But if we do risk being killed , ” said Porthos , “ at least I should like to know what for. ” “ You would be all the wiser , ” said Athos .
30179m “ You are angry with us all on account of this marriage , are you not ? ” “ Yes ? ” “ Really , this is too absurd , ” said Villefort .
0099m “ Go on , sir , ” said he .
Answer , or we charge. ” “ Beware of what you are about , gentlemen ! ” said a clear voice which seemed accustomed to command .
hold your peace , Porthos , don ’ t remind me of it ; ’ tis that which has made me so cross since yesterday .
“ Let us see , ” said Athos .
The valet then left the room .
In which it is proved that first Impulses are oftentimes the best .
London is far from Paris , very far , and perhaps the commission with which you charge me is not without dangers ? ” “ What matters it , if you avoid them ? ” “ Hold , Madame Bonacieux , ” said the mercer , “ hold !
Beware !
Chapter 15 .
“ Faster , faster ! ” he cried , in a tone which electrified the coachman .
Roman Bandits The next morning Franz woke first , and instantly rang the bell .
Cries of “ Live the king !
The king , as we have said , was to follow as soon as his Bed of Justice had been held ; but on rising from his Bed of Justice on the twenty-eighth of June , he felt himself attacked by fever .
Anticipating your wishes , I have desired the same horses you came with to be put to one of my carriages , and Ali , he whom you think so very ugly , ” continued he , addressing the boy with a smiling air , “ will have the honor of driving you home , while your coachman remains here to attend to the necessary repairs of your calash .
“ It was only a way of speaking .
Now , if I entreat , if I order you to live , Morrel , it is in the conviction that one day you will thank me for having preserved your life. ” “ Oh , heavens , ” said the young man , “ oh , heavens—what are you saying , count ?
What do you desire ? ” “ A bed , my Lord , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
“ Ah , come in , come in , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” cried the cardinal , “ and welcome your friend too .
“ They have been speaking of my marriage , —have they not ? ” “ Yes , ” replied the angry look .
and what has procured me so flattering a distinction ? ” “ What ?
Did you see the president at the minister ’ s last night ? ” “ Yes. ” “ What did he say ? ” “ Something which will surprise you. ” “ Oh , make haste and tell me , then ; it is a long time since that has happened. ” “ Well , he told me that Benedetto , who is considered a serpent of subtlety and a giant of cunning , is really but a very commonplace , silly rascal , and altogether unworthy of the experiments that will be made on his phrenological organs after his death. ” “ Bah , ” said Beauchamp , “ he played the prince very well. ” “ Yes , for you who detest those unhappy princes , Beauchamp , and are always delighted to find fault with them ; but not for me , who discover a gentleman by instinct , and who scent out an aristocratic family like a very bloodhound of heraldry. ” “ Then you never believed in the principality ? ” “ Yes.—in the principality , but not in the prince. ” “ Not so bad , ” said Beauchamp ; “ still , I assure you , he passed very well with many people ; I saw him at the ministers ’ houses. ” “ Ah , yes , ” said Château-Renaud .
“ My lord , I have been so long shut up , that I am only of one party—I am for fresh air .
“ A lion even ? ” Ali sprung forwards , imitating the action of one throwing the lasso , then of a strangled lion .
“ You have there a most charming mistress , viscount , ” said the count in a perfectly calm tone ; “ and this costume—a ball costume , doubtless—becomes her admirably. ” “ Ah , monsieur , ” returned Albert , “ I would never forgive you this mistake if you had seen another picture beside this .
“ Formerly a brewer , ” replied the Gascon .
Lord de Winter and the three Musketeers looked at one another inquiringly .
Hold !
“ Really , sir , you must allow that this is most extraordinary , ” said the astonished notary , turning to M. de Villefort .
At the end of the breakfast Franz took out his watch .
To reach England ” —Athos lowered his voice— “ all France , covered with spies and creatures of the cardinal , must be crossed .
They are alive , that ’ s all that I can say about them ; from time to time I hear of them indirectly , but in what part of the world they are , devil take me if I know , No , on my honor , I have not a friend in the world but you , Rochefort. ” “ And the illustrious—what ’ s the name of the lad whom I made a sergeant in Piedmont ’ s regiment ? ” “ Planchet ! ” “ The illustrious Planchet .
She is some emissary of the cardinal ; a woman who will draw you into a snare in which you will leave your head. ” “ The devil !
“ What are your excellency ’ s orders ? ” inquired Gaetano .
“ Some nabob from India , ” was his comment .
Towards the house the chestnut-trees we have before mentioned rose high above the wall , without in any way affecting the growth of other luxuriant shrubs and flowers that eagerly dressed forward to fill up the vacant spaces , as though asserting their right to enjoy the boon of light and air .
He hastened to open the _secrétaire_ , and found the pocket-book in the drawer , and in it the letter of credit .
“ Holloa !
“ No , not that way , I beg , sir , ” quickly exclaimed the cardinal , “ be so good as to pass by yonder gallery , by which you can regain the hall .
This to me , who expected but to find a blank enclosure surrounded by a straight wall , is , I assure you , a most agreeable surprise .
Be it understood we are speaking of Athos .
He was not ignorant that such a beast was worth at least twenty livres ; and the words which had accompanied the present were above all price .
“ I will ask leave of absence of Monsieur de Tréville , on some pretext or other which you must invent ; I am not very clever at pretexts .
“ Ah , sir , ” said he , “ tell me what is the matter with me .
MEN OF THE ROBE AND MEN OF THE SWORD On the day after these events had taken place , Athos not having reappeared , M. de Tréville was informed by D ’ Artagnan and Porthos of the circumstance .
If I only were a—— ” “ A baron , don ’ t you mean ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan , finishing his friend ’ s sentence .
I don ’ t suppose that our friend D ’ Artagnan has added any of his own to the amount. ” “ But , gentlemen , in all this , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ we do not think of the queen .
When , sir , I tell you all this with tears of heartfelt anguish , can you reply that I am wrong , can you prevent my putting an end to my miserable existence ?
Whilst they pursue him the king might escape. ” “ It is good advice , ” said Athos , “ and if the king will do one of us the honor we shall be truly grateful to him. ” “ What do you think of this counsel , Winter ? ” asked the king , looking with admiration at these two men , whose chief idea seemed to be how they could take on their shoulders all the dangers that assailed him .
You succeeded , and then God snatched it from you , and brought you to justice. ” “ It was not I who wished to kill the Jew , ” said Caderousse ; “ it was La Carconte. ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo , “ and God , —I can not say in justice , for his justice would have slain you , —but God , in his mercy , spared your life. ” “ _Pardieu ! _ to transport me for life , how merciful ! ” “ You thought it a mercy then , miserable wretch !
Bonacieux ’ s glass the contents of a ring which she opened with singular quickness .
Thus D ’ Artagnan entered Paris on foot , carrying his little packet under his arm , and walked about till he found an apartment to be let on terms suited to the scantiness of his means .
Tomorrow , for instance , he is going to spend the day and night there. ” “ Are you sure of it ? ” “ He has invited me to dine there. ” “ There ’ s a life for you , ” said Caderousse ; “ a town house and a country house. ” “ That is what it is to be rich. ” “ And shall you dine there ? ” “ Probably. ” “ When you dine there , do you sleep there ? ” “ If I like ; I am at home there. ” Caderousse looked at the young man , as if to get at the truth from the bottom of his heart .
“ Let us break the carriage ! ” cried the people .
He began by moving his bed , and looked around for anything with which he could pierce the wall , penetrate the moist cement , and displace a stone .
The two friends having agreed to leave Blaisois and Grimaud at Compiegne with the horses , resolved to take post horses ; and having snatched a hasty dinner they continued their journey to Louvres .
Is it not so , father ? ” The old man made a sign in the affirmative .
He called for D ’ Artagnan , but in the midst of such tumult he little expected to see him , D ’ Artagnan not being on service .
“ Good-day , M. Morrel , ” said he , as if he had just quitted Marseilles the previous evening , and had just returned from Aix or Toulon .
“ What is his name ? ” said he .
Chapter LXXX .
“ I do not allude to you , my boy .
He determined , therefore , to direct his course as clear from it as he could when , on the opposite side of the road , from behind a rock , he perceived the extremity of another musket .
“ You ? ” and the wounded man sought to recall the features of the person now before him .
“ My lords , ” answered he , “ it is not by time I could repel the attack made on me by enemies unknown to me , and , doubtless , hidden in obscurity ; it is immediately , and by a thunderbolt , that I must repel the flash of lightning which , for a moment , startled me .
thou wouldst not have thought so hadst thou known Mousqueton well. ” “ So far so well , ” answered Planchet , alighting , and extending his arms to Mousqueton , the two servants embraced with an emotion which touched those who were present and made them suppose that Planchet was a great lord in disguise , so highly did they estimate the position of Mousqueton .
“ Pardon me , excellency , ” said Peppino , placing his hand on the banker ’ s shoulder ; “ people pay here before they eat .
This brought them , by the end of the repast , to swallowing a drink which from the color of the ruby had passed to that of a pale topaz .
Under her apparent emotions her icy coolness never abandoned her .
“ Well , the abbé—the Abbé Busoni. ” Monte Cristo took off the wig which disfigured him , and let fall his black hair , which added so much to the beauty of his pallid features .
We need not add that the goldsmith , O ’ Reilly , and his assistant , were prohibited from going out under any pretext .
Either they respect or they fear me , which is more likely , but they let me trample down the clover with my dogs , insult and obstruct every one , and I come back still more weary and low-spirited , that ’ s all .
“ You married Oliva Corsinari in the church of San Paolo del Monte-Cattini ; here is the priest ’ s certificate. ” “ Yes indeed , there it is truly , ” said the Italian , looking on with astonishment .
It arose from blows of hammer and hatchet , clinking of pincers and cranching of saws .
Little flirtations , perhaps , and that ’ s all .
“ The good George ! ” said she , closing the window with an expression of countenance full of affection and melancholy .
the queen has not only one son , but two ; then , Monsieur de Coligny was killed , and—— ” “ Yes , ” said Mazarin , “ but the coadjutor is not yet made cardinal ! ” “ No , my lord , but he will be , ” answered the guard .
Mademoiselle Danglars ! ” exclaimed Andrea , stupefied .
Morcerf , who ran towards him with open arms , was chilled as he drew near , in spite of the friendly smile , and simply held out his hand .
But since the end of the month M. Morrel had passed many an anxious hour .
“ And you have succeeded , ” exclaimed d ’ Avrigny .
“ It is impossible , ” said the procureur .
Why , if you sought concealment , did you call your horse Vampa ? ” “ That was an oversight , certainly , ” replied the count ; “ but tell me , does the Count of Morcerf never visit the Opera ?
The Guardsman who had returned at the first discharge announced the death of his four companions .
You will get yourself decapitated , my beautiful queen , and that would be a pity. ” “ You laugh. ” “ Faintly .
Andrea extended his hand ; Bertuccio kept his own in his pocket , and merely jingled a few pieces of money .
“ But who poured the wine for you that was in this glass ? ” “ She. ” “ But who is _she ? _ ” “ Oh , I remember ! ” said Mme .
He not only talked much , but he talked loudly , little caring , we must render him that justice , whether anybody listened to him or not .
And if I do not possess that talent , which your smiles prove to me you doubt , should I not still have that ardent love of independence , which will be a substitute for wealth , and which in my mind supersedes even the instinct of self-preservation ?
D ’ Artagnan had often meditated against the perfidious host one of those hearty vengeances which offer consolation while they are hoped for .
I may also enjoy the precious privilege of assuring you of my fond , faithful , and unalterable affection , whenever you visit your favorite bower , unless , indeed , it offends your pride to listen to professions of love from the lips of a poor workingman , clad in a blouse and cap. ” A faint cry of mingled pleasure and surprise escaped from the lips of Valentine , who almost instantly said , in a saddened tone , as though some envious cloud darkened the joy which illumined her heart : “ Alas , no , Maximilian , this must not be , for many reasons .
The queen reflected for a moment and then , seeing the cautious demeanor of the musketeer : “ Perhaps you like repose ? ” she said .
Bonacieux .
What !
The splendor was within .
“ I did not come to Rome to see , ” said Danglars aloud ; then he added softly , with an avaricious smile , “ I came to touch ! ” and he rapped his pocket-book , in which he had just placed a letter .
An effort was made and the living barrier was violently broken through .
By degrees the sun disappeared behind the western horizon ; but as though to prove the truth of the fanciful ideas in heathen mythology , its indiscreet rays reappeared on the summit of every wave , as if the god of fire had just sunk upon the bosom of Amphitrite , who in vain endeavored to hide her lover beneath her azure mantle .
’ tis you , Monsieur de Chatillon , ” cried the chevalier ; “ welcome to you—I expected you. ” “ I hope I have not made you wait too long , sir , ” said the duke ; “ at all events , here I am. ” “ Monsieur de Chatillon , ” cried Aramis , taking from his saddle-bags a second pistol , “ I think if your pistols have been discharged you are a dead man. ” “ Thank God , sir , they are not ! ” And the duke , pointing his pistol at Aramis , fired .
“ ‘ Yes , he ’ s not a man to allow himself to be taken anyhow ; he ’ ll defend himself. ’ “ ‘ Well , we must try to take him alive .
It was four o ’ clock when Dantès was placed in this chamber .
During the war with Spain he was employed in the commissariat of the French army , and made a fortune ; then with that money he speculated in the funds , and trebled or quadrupled his capital ; and , having first married his banker ’ s daughter , who left him a widower , he has married a second time , a widow , a Madame de Nargonne , daughter of M. de Servieux , the king ’ s chamberlain , who is in high favor at court .
“ As being the friends Edmond esteemed most faithful and devoted to him. ” “ I don ’ t call those friends who betray and ruin you , ” murmured the wife in her turn , in a low , muttering voice .
“ I hope it does not exceed— ” She stopped ; speech failed her .
Porthos drew his sword from the scabbard , and made passes at the wall , springing back from time to time , and making contortions like a dancer .
“ What was I saying ?
Come now , do smile , instead of looking at me so solemnly .
Just as the tutor and his escort disappeared in their turn , a new traveler stopped on the threshold of the inn .
Afterward , Monsieur de Tréville fought with others : in his first journey to Paris , five times ; from the death of the late king till the young one came of age , without reckoning wars and sieges , seven times ; and from that date up to the present day , a hundred times , perhaps !
He pointed out to him the bearings of the coast , explained to him the variations of the compass , and taught him to read in that vast book opened over our heads which they call heaven , and where God writes in azure with letters of diamonds .
“ Follow me , then , ” said the abbé , as he re-entered the subterranean passage , in which he soon disappeared , followed by Dantès .
You will find mine on my saddle , already loaded. ” Mouston breathed a sigh ; he couldn ’ t understand visits of ceremony made under arms .
“ Very well , my lord ; it shall be so. ” D ’ Artagnan saluted , went out and hastened to repeat to his friend Mazarin ’ s flattering promises , which gave Porthos an indescribable happiness .
“ Well ? ” “ To-morrow I am on guard. ” “ In Stuart ’ s room ? ” “ Yes ; come and pass the night with me. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ Impossible !
Mazarin followed the direction of his eyes and gently turned the hoop of the ring inside .
And what was this man ’ s name ? ” “ Danglars. ” “ What rank did he hold on board ? ” “ He was supercargo. ” “ And had you been captain , should you have retained him in his employment ? ” “ Not if the choice had remained with me , for I had frequently observed inaccuracies in his accounts. ” “ Good again !
No , sir .
“ Embrace Porthos from Aramis and myself .
Mercédès drew near , and plucked the fruit .
“ Sir , ” said she , “ that need not make you uneasy , however difficult it may at first sight appear to be .
All these successive accidents were perhaps the result of chance ; but they might be the fruits of a plot .
28 , ” said the count , fixing his eyes on the steward , to whom he gave this order .
Chapter II .
Bonacieux tried to walk , made two steps , and sank upon her knees .
“ I have twenty visits to make and as many letters to write. ” They then separated .
“ Ah ! ” said he , raising himself on his elbow , “ is it you , Comte de la Fere ? ” “ Yes , sire , ” replied Athos .
We are compelled to admit to our readers that D ’ Artagnan thought nothing about him in any way ; or that if he did think of him , it was only to say to himself that he was very well where he was , wherever it might be .
I have but little influence now , but all that I have shall most assuredly be his .
“ _Ma foi_ , yes ; though he was in his own element. ” “ What do you mean ? ” “ The report was that he had been a naval officer , who had been confined for plotting with the Bonapartists. ” “ Great is truth , ” muttered the count , “ fire can not burn , nor water drown it !
Hardly was he concealed when the little bell sounded .
Oh , yes ; I can see it all before me this moment. ” “ Was it not his betrothal feast ? ” “ It was and the feast that began so gayly had a very sorrowful ending ; a police commissary , followed by four soldiers , entered , and Dantès was arrested. ” “ Yes , and up to this point I know all , ” said the priest .
“ There ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ what did I tell you ?
When he approached a group in the middle of the street he urged his horse upon it without a word of warning ; and the members of the group , whether rebels or not , as if they knew with what sort of a man they had to deal , at once gave place to the patrol .
Close to him , dressed in entirely new clothes , advanced smilingly Count Andrea Cavalcanti , the dutiful son , whom we also know .
Mazarin had passed a very bad night when this letter was brought to him , announcing that the duke was free and that he would henceforth raise up mortal strife against him .
We four will go ; and I hope to God that with our four lackeys we may be in sufficient number. ” “ You terrify me , Athos ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ Sir , ” replied the wounded man , “ believe me , there is no time to lose ; the ball has broken the thigh bone and entered the intestines. ” “ Are you a surgeon ? ” asked De Guiche .
“ There , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ this is capital !
The street was laid out , a name was chosen and posted up on an iron plate , but before construction was begun , it occurred to the possessor of the property that a handsome sum might be obtained for the ground then devoted to fruits and vegetables , by building along the line of the proposed street , and so making it a branch of communication with the Faubourg Saint-Honoré itself , one of the most important thoroughfares in the city of Paris .
I have known you four days ; I have loved him four years .
What , then , have I to fear from him ? ” “ You are right , ” said the countess , “ and my fears are weakness , especially when directed against a man who has saved your life .
They were armed with their long guns inlaid with mother-of-pearl and silver , and cartridges in great numbers were lying scattered on the floor .
“ It is my fault , madame , ” said Raoul .
Have I friends ?
The Catalans Chapter 4 .
Are there any magistrates or judges at the Château d ’ If ? ” “ There are only , ” said the gendarme , “ a governor , a garrison , turnkeys , and good thick walls .
It was just five o ’ clock in the morning when a slight noise like a stifled sigh reached his ear .
I believe that the Spirit of God led my steps to thee and that he also enables me to quit thee in triumph ; the secret cause of my presence within thy walls I have confided alone to him who only has had the power to read my heart .
At this instant M. de Tréville entered , cool , polite , and in irreproachable costume .
The Foundation ’ s EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541 .
He now determined not to begin the game with D ’ Artagnan till he knew completely all his adversary ’ s cards .
However that might have been , the priest , dismounting , led his steed by the bridle in search of some place to which he could secure him .
“ You may retire ; we consent to that .
if I may ask without indiscretion. ” “ Near here , ” replied De Comminges , smiling ; “ so near that if the windows which look on the orangery were not stopped up you could see him from where you are. ” “ He is wandering about the environs of the castle , ” thought D ’ Artagnan .
What he ? ” asked Athos .
By this smile M. de Tréville judged that he had not to deal with a fool , and changing the conversation , came straight to the point .
Do you intend to stand on ceremony because you are less attached to me than you were ? ” “ Oh !
But although her voice—sweet , full , and sonorous—vibrated as harmoniously and as affectingly as ever , the door remained shut .
The air , the fresh , free air is so good ; besides , ” and Rochefort drew a deep breath as he spoke , “ I am going into the country to make a tour. ” “ Stop , ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ I , too , am going. ” “ And if I may without impertinence ask—where are you going ? ” “ To seek my friends. ” “ What friends ? ” “ Those that you asked about yesterday. ” “ Athos , Porthos and Aramis—you are looking for them ? ” “ Yes. ” “ On honor ? ” “ What , then , is there surprising in that ? ” “ Nothing .
No !
“ My sword !
Then no more of Felton ; she would have cut your throat , and after that everybody else ’ s .
D ’ Artagnan descended by the staircase at which he had entered , and found Athos and the four Musketeers waiting his appearance , and beginning to grow uneasy .
“ No , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ God grant I may not have done too much already. ” The next day they indeed left , accompanied only by Baptistin .
“ That shoots me , ” said the Swiss .
The storm increased , the flashes succeeded one another more rapidly , the thunder began to growl , and the wind , the precursor of a hurricane , whistled in the plumes and the hair of the horsemen .
It came from my brother , the King of Spain .
Why are you bequeathing all your fortune to me ?
“ Ah !
All , therefore , of the vast resources of his genius were at work night and day , engaged in listening to the least report heard in any of the great kingdoms of Europe .
“ That ’ s well , ” said he to Planchet , when the latter added the portmanteau to the equipment .
“ Well , ” said the count , “ what are you doing ? ” “ You must excuse us , count , ” returned Franz , “ but we have still much to do. ” “ What may that be ? ” “ We have no masks , and it is absolutely necessary to procure them. ” “ Do not concern yourself about that ; we have , I think , a private room in the Piazza del Popolo ; I will have whatever costumes you choose brought to us , and you can dress there. ” “ After the execution ? ” cried Franz .
“ No Count of Monte Cristo ” added Debray .
Give the watchword. ” “ Do you want money ? ” “ Money never comes amiss at any time , my lord ; if one has it not , one must do without it ; with it , matters go on much better and more rapidly. ” Gondy went to a box and drew forth a bag .
“ Indeed ! ” thought Porthos , casting a glance at the three hungry clerks—for the errand boy , as might be expected , was not admitted to the honors of the magisterial table , “ in my cousin ’ s place , I would not keep such gourmands !
26. ” “ On my word , ” said Albert , “ you astonish me by the extent of your knowledge .
D ’ Artagnan obeyed like a child , without the least resistance or objection , which proved that he was really in love .
“ ‘ Then it seems I am to eat alone , ’ remarked the jeweller .
I confess , if the court would do justice to my claims and give the head of my house the title of prince , and if my brother De Turenne were reinstated in his command I would return to my estates and leave the court and parliament to settle things between themselves as they might. ” “ You are perfectly right , my lord. ” “ You think so ?
These horses are equipped for the field .
Knowest thou not that it is the custom of these soldiers to act thus and that it is usual for the regiment to form themselves into two solid walls when the king goes by ? ” Friquet counterfeited surprise , and twisting his new cap around in his fingers , said : “ It is not astonishing for you to know it , Monsieur Broussel , who knows everything ; but as for me , by holy truth , I did not know it and I thought I would give you good advice ; you must not be angry with me for that , Monsieur Broussel. ” “ On the contrary , my boy , on the contrary , I am pleased with your zeal .
“ All at once the noise of a door , turning on its hinges , made me start .
“ See , gentlemen , ” said M. de Beaufort , “ this wonderful animal , not finding here what I ask for , seeks it out of doors ; you shall , however , have his answer .
Felton , abandon me !
THE BASTION SAINT-GERVAIS Chapter XLVII .
The answer known , he had yielded to Albert ’ s wish to be introduced to Haydée , and allowed the conversation to turn on the death of Ali , and had not opposed Haydée ’ s recital ( but having , doubtless , warned the young girl , in the few Romaic words he spoke to her , not to implicate Morcerf ’ s father ) .
This house was gloomy because it was remorseful : it was remorseful because it concealed a crime. ” “ Who said it was a crime ? ” asked Villefort , with a last effort .
was struck with this insistence , and began to fancy that this recommendation concealed some mystery .
There was then amongst that crowd a moment ’ s hesitation , which looked like shame .
Athos called Grimaud , pointed to a large basket which lay in a corner , and made a sign to him to wrap the viands up in the napkins .
A Signed Statement Noirtier was prepared to receive them , dressed in black , and installed in his armchair .
Fernand , you are wicked to call to your aid jealousy and the anger of God !
It was day .
Both were addressed to King Charles .
“ No ; but you can place me in one of the provinces with some lady of your acquaintance—in your own country , for instance. ” “ My dear little love !
Though sinking from moment to moment , the wounded man was not yet dead .
I forgot—— ” and he gave some orders in a low voice to one of the horsemen .
Let us not depart from the sentimental turn our conversation had taken .
Do you speak Spanish , Grammont ? ” “ Faith , my lord , but indifferently. ” “ And I not at all , ” said the prince , laughing .
Baptistin looked at his master , who made a sign to him , and he went out , closing the door after him .
“ Wait , wait ; you are going to know me .
ah ! ” said Aramis .
Besides , according to all probability they will wait at the door. ” D ’ Artagnan made a violent effort over himself to keep his face from being too expressive .
At the precise time when Madame Danglars , dressed in black and concealed in a long veil , was ascending the stairs leading to Debray ’ s apartments , notwithstanding the assurances of the concierge that the young man was not at home , Debray was occupied in repelling the insinuations of a friend , who tried to persuade him that after the terrible scene which had just taken place he ought , as a friend of the family , to marry Mademoiselle Danglars and her two millions .
The chief took the paper , unfolded it , and , raising his hand , “ Heaven be praised , and his Holiness also , ” said he in a loud voice ; “ here is a pardon for one of the prisoners ! ” “ A pardon ! ” cried the people with one voice ; “ a pardon ! ” At this cry Andrea raised his head .
D ’ Artagnan was the youngest of all these men .
I alone can save you , and I will. ” Valentine in the extremity of her terror joined her hands , —for she felt that the moment had arrived to ask for courage , —and began to pray , and while uttering little more than incoherent words , she forgot that her white shoulders had no other covering than her long hair , and that the pulsations of her heart could be seen through the lace of her nightdress .
“ Do ; but make no treaty—you understand me ? ” “ You need not fear. ” Morrel advanced towards Beauchamp and Château-Renaud , who , seeing his intention , came to meet him .
Defend yourself. ” “ One minute , ” said the young man .
“ I should have liked to have made you the offer of these horses .
“ Juxon ! ” cried Charles , “ Juxon , thank you , my last friend ; you come at a fitting moment. ” The bishop looked anxiously at the man sobbing in the ingle-nook .
“ When shall we land in England ? ” he asked ; but De Winter seemed not to hear his words and made no reply .
The Englishman entered , and found Morrel seated at a table , turning over the formidable columns of his ledger , which contained the list of his liabilities .
You shall shut the door that you may be certain I contemplate no injury to you !
“ Yes , and now I shall be more calm. ” “ You know I am waiting , ” said Monte Cristo , smiling .
D ’ Artagnan immediately placed the point of his sword at his throat .
This accursed letter would have destroyed all my hopes .
The thunder growled in the air like the passion and anger in her thoughts .
“ I never knew till now the delight of speed , ” said Morcerf , and the last cloud disappeared from his brow ; “ but where the devil do you get such horses ?
“ I shall bring that forward as an extenuating circumstance , ” replied Eugénie .
“ The man is tired , ” said the captain , “ conduct him to his bed. ” “ Oh , ” murmured Danglars , “ that bed is probably one of the coffins hollowed in the wall , and the sleep I shall enjoy will be death from one of the poniards I see glistening in the darkness. ” From their beds of dried leaves or wolf-skins at the back of the chamber now arose the companions of the man who had been found by Albert de Morcerf reading _Cæsar ’ s Commentaries_ , and by Danglars studying the _Life of Alexander_ .
D ’ Artagnan uttered a slight cry of joy ; this woman , or rather this apparition—for the carriage passed with the rapidity of a vision—was Mme .
When one puts on a mask , it is not difficult to wear a beard under it. ” “ I am sorry I did not follow him , ” said Porthos .
Her white and slender fingers , her pearly neck , her cheeks tinted with varying hues reminded one of the lovely Englishwomen who have been so poetically compared in their manner to the gracefulness of a swan .
The safety of the horseman , you know , depends almost always upon the goodness of his horse. ” “ Well , transfer it to me at the price it cost you ? ” “ I was going to make you the offer , my dear D ’ Artagnan , giving you all the time necessary for repaying me such a trifle. ” “ How much did it cost you ? ” “ Eight hundred livres. ” “ Here are forty double pistoles , my dear friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , taking the sum from his pocket ; “ I know that is the coin in which you were paid for your poems. ” “ You are rich , then ? ” said Aramis .
Scarcely had he turned the corner of the Rue de la Juiverie when the boy rushed after him like a bloodhound on full scent .
To what end ?
And I have not seen him !
But , would you believe it , ‘ He was not receiving. ’ So the master of Monte Cristo gives himself airs befitting a great millionaire or a capricious beauty .
“ Because , monsieur , ” replied Kitty , “ my mistress loves you not at all. ” “ _Hein ! _ ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ can she have charged you to tell me so ? ” “ Oh , no , monsieur ; but out of the regard I have for you , I have taken the resolution to tell you so. ” “ Much obliged , my dear Kitty ; but for the intention only—for the information , you must agree , is not likely to be at all agreeable. ” “ That is to say , you don ’ t believe what I have told you ; is it not so ? ” “ We have always some difficulty in believing such things , my pretty dear , were it only from self-love. ” “ Then you don ’ t believe me ? ” “ I confess that unless you deign to give me some proof of what you advance— ” “ What do you think of this ? ” Kitty drew a little note from her bosom .
It was like having a spy in the enemy ’ s camp .
He will explain to you the steps that I expect you to pursue .
A terrible howling interrupted these reflections of D ’ Artagnan and Mme .
In his youth D ’ Artagnan had often headed the bourgeoisie against the military , but he was cured of all those hot-headed propensities ; besides , he had the cardinal ’ s hundred pistoles in his pocket , so he went into the hotel without a word .
You must accomplish loyally the commission with which I deign to charge you , and on that condition I pardon everything , I forget everything ; and what is more , ” and she held out her hand to him , “ I restore my love. ” Bonacieux was cowardly and avaricious , but he loved his wife .
The door was closed , and the carriage proceeded .
Do you still fence well ? ” “ I—I fence as well as you did in the old time—better still , perhaps ; I do nothing else all day. ” “ And with whom ? ” “ With an excellent master-at-arms that we have here. ” “ What !
I will send you to Constantinople. ” “ No , lest on the first demonstration I make in favor of Mehemet Ali , the Sultan send me the bowstring , and make my secretaries strangle me. ” “ You say very true , ” responded Debray .
Well , I sold my shares , the news got out , and I no longer sold—I gave them away , next day I find the news was false , and by this false report I have lost 700,000 francs. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , since I gave you a fourth of my gains , I think you owe me a fourth of my losses ; the fourth of 700,000 francs is 175,000 francs. ” “ What you say is absurd , and I can not see why M. Debray ’ s name is mixed up in this affair. ” “ Because if you do not possess the 175,000 francs I reclaim , you must have lent them to your friends , and M. Debray is one of your friends. ” 30245m “ For shame ! ” exclaimed the baroness .
The cardinal was speaking to him in a low voice , and the king was very pale .
Selim made ready his lance .
Twenty times he interceded for Edmond .
Can I have lost it ?
The past , like the country through which we walk , becomes indistinct as we advance .
I made a sign to Grimaud and the Scotchman , and we all three retired into a corner of the square .
Let her believe that we are in search of some conspiracy or other .
These gentlemen , ” added he , turning to the two friends , “ will , I trust , do me the honor to breakfast with me ? ” “ But , my dear count , ” said Albert , “ we shall abuse your kindness. ” “ Not at all ; on the contrary , you will give me great pleasure .
Perhaps you had a spy at your heels ; and your visit , if it should ever be known to the cardinal , will thus seem legitimate. ” D ’ Artagnan drew up his request , and M. de Tréville , on receiving it , assured him that by two o ’ clock in the morning the four leaves of absence should be at the respective domiciles of the travelers .
This example was imitated by the rest , until the room filled silently , as if these men had been the humblest , most devoted courtiers .
Who knows ?
One expression above all recurred to the mind of the prisoner : “ If I had listened to you , ” Lord de Winter had said to Felton .
Without me , you would both have died .
Greet each other , then ; and be wise if you wish to preserve your heads. ” Rochefort and D ’ Artagnan coolly greeted each other with their lips ; but the cardinal was there , observing them with his vigilant eye .
Look at me well in your turn .
The trees of the garden were easily seen from the steps of the street-door .
See to these horses .
Having obtained the light , he hurried upstairs again , and once more I heard his rapid and uneasy footsteps .
She looked at the clock , rose , reseated herself , smiled at D ’ Artagnan with an air which said , “ You are very amiable , no doubt , but you would be _charming_ if you would only depart. ” D ’ Artagnan rose and took his hat ; Milady gave him her hand to kiss .
Athos , who had not lost a word of the conversation , took his two companions by the hand , and led them to the other end of the room .
Eugénie approached softly , and saw the old man sleeping soundly in an armchair in his lodge .
“ He had even given orders to arrest her and would have cut off her head had she not escaped with her waiting-maid—poor Kitty !
“ You know the proverb ‘ Unlucky at play , lucky in love. ’ You are too fortunate in your love for play not to take its revenge .
“ Let us leave them , ” she said .
The bell rang at this moment for the rising of the curtain .
The recompense will exceed your expectations ; that is all I promise you. ” “ More intrigues !
“ You are in a hurry ? ” said the Musketeer , as pale as a sheet .
The news , which filled the palace with tears and groans , soon became known , and spread itself throughout the city .
Chapter LXI .
“ Troops ? ” “ Five or six thousand men. ” “ Courage ? ” “ Plenty. ” “ Then the thing is easy .
Beware , monsieur ; there is certainly some magic underneath. ” Meanwhile , the young man had darted in to his chamber , and opened the letter .
He reflected that this second grotto must penetrate deeper into the island ; he examined the stones , and sounded one part of the wall where he fancied the opening existed , masked for precaution ’ s sake .
Chapter 66 .
And I have the same sincerity to show you , if you wish , Monsieur d ’ Herblay ; I acted in a similar way to you and you also deceived me. ” “ Really , monsieur , you say strange things , ” said Aramis .
D ’ Artagnan was thoughtful and seemed for the moment to have lost his usual loquacity .
“ Saved ? ” repeated Morrel , not being able to conceive such intense happiness ; “ by whom ? ” “ By my grandfather .
Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , after having had an entertainment at my house and enjoying themselves very much , created such a disturbance that the provost of the castle , a rigid man , has ordered them to be confined for some days ; but I accomplish the order they have given me by forwarding to you a dozen bottles of my Anjou wine , with which they are much pleased .
But the latter went on without pity : “ ‘ Seek whom the crime will profit , ’ says an axiom of jurisprudence. ” “ Doctor , ” cried Villefort , “ alas , doctor , how often has man ’ s justice been deceived by those fatal words .
The island was deserted , and the sun seemed to cover it with its fiery glance ; afar off , a few small fishing boats studded the bosom of the blue ocean .
I may have been mistaken. ” At this moment the young man returned ; Danglars withdrew .
Justice before everything. ” Then turning toward M. de Tréville and walking with him toward the embrasure of a window , “ Well , monsieur , ” continued he , “ you say it is his Eminence ’ s Guards who have sought a quarrel with your Musketeers ? ” “ Yes , sire , as they always do. ” “ And how did the thing happen ?
“ You know , my dear count , ” said he , “ the ceremony is to take place this evening .
“ Yes , I have need of it. ” The mendicant uttered these words in a tone of such humility , such earnest repentance , that Gondy placed his hand upon him and gave him his benediction with all the unction of which he was capable .
‘ Is the committee willing to hear this witness ? ’ — ‘ Yes , yes , ’ they all said at once .
Like all the great nobles of that period , Athos rode and fenced to perfection .
The window , let at an exorbitant price , which the count had doubtless wished to conceal from his guests , was on the second floor of the great palace , situated between the Via del Babuino and the Monte Pincio .
What have you done with that gentleman against whom you had the audacity , about twelve days ago , to make an accusation of passing false money ? ” The host became as pale as death ; for D ’ Artagnan had assumed a threatening attitude , and Planchet modeled himself after his master .
As soon as she was gone , Noirtier made a sign to Morrel to take the dictionary .
Take this ring ; raise money with it , and let your husband set out. ” “ In an hour you shall be obeyed. ” “ You see the address , ” said the queen , speaking so low that Mme .
Well , three days after that you talked politics with M. Debray , and you fancied from his words that Don Carlos had returned to Spain .
don ’ t let us talk politics , my lord. ” “ Then my keeper would begin to trust this man and to depend upon him , and I should have news from those without the prison walls. ” “ Ah , yes !
At five in the evening they sent Mousqueton on before as agreed upon .
“ Have you not hit upon any ? ” asked Danglars .
He became curious to solve the problem .
The countess dashed the grapes into the nearest thicket , with a gesture of despair .
“ This way , gentlemen , this way ! ” he cried , directing his course toward the gate that had been pointed out .
The Assizes The Benedetto affair , as it was called at the Palais , and by people in general , had produced a tremendous sensation .
But for the moment , let us do as did the amorous Gascon ; we will see after the worthy mercer later .
The next morn broke off the coast of Aleria ; all day they coasted , and in the evening saw fires lighted on land ; the position of these was no doubt a signal for landing , for a ship ’ s lantern was hung up at the mast-head instead of the streamer , and they came to within a gunshot of the shore .
The Rencontre .
“ Oh ! ” muttered Mazarin , “ I do believe he is going off with the diamond !
“ Sure enough , ” said the general .
It is not my intention here to enter into an analysis of this curious work ; and I shall satisfy myself with referring such of my readers as appreciate the pictures of the period to its pages .
“ What the devil are you doing here , count ? ” “ Accomplishing my destiny , ” replied Rochefort , falling on one knee .
Monsieur de Tréville is ill , so my company can ’ t do without me ; there !
Athos , who was of as high birth as the emperor and who inherits one estate which gives him the title of comte , what is he to do with all those dignities—the Comte de la Fere , Comte de Bragelonne ? ” “ And he has no children with all these titles ? ” “ Ah ! ” said Porthos , “ I have heard that he had adopted a young man who resembles him greatly. ” “ What , Athos ?
“ To think of the Parisians , ” soliloquized D ’ Artagnan , “ offering only the other day , by an edict of the parliament , six hundred thousand francs to any man soever who would deliver up the cardinal to them , dead or alive—if alive , in order to hang him ; if dead , to deny him the rites of Christian burial ! ” “ Come , ” said Anne , “ ’ tis reasonable , since you only ask from a queen the sixth of what the parliament has proposed ; ” and she signed an order for a hundred thousand francs .
Shall I draw back my forehead from his embrace , or withhold my hand from his ?
It is a shame to leave him to be educated by our enemies , who will give him evil counsel ; whereas , brought up by the coadjutor , for instance , he would imbibe national principles and love his people. ” That night the question was secretly agitated and on the morrow the gray and black cloaks , the patrols of armed shop-people , and the bands of mendicants reappeared .
“ And you have come here with that purpose ? ” Grimaud repeated the sign .
“ Your quarrels with the parliament , your noisy dissensions with the princes , who fight for you to-day and to-morrow will fight against you , the popular following directed by the coadjutor , President Blancmesnil , and Councillor Broussel—all that disorder , in short , which pervades the several departments of the state , must lead you to view with uneasiness the possibility of a foreign war ; for in that event England , exalted by the enthusiasm of new ideas , will ally herself with Spain , already seeking that alliance .
“ We are friends ; are we not ? ” she asked .
“ Listen , my dear girl , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ you can not but perceive that all this must end , some way or other .
He was nineteen when he entered the Château d ’ If ; he was thirty-three when he escaped .
When the chancellor had opened and shut twenty times the drawers of the secretaries , it became necessary , whatever hesitation he might experience—it became necessary , I say , to come to the conclusion of the affair ; that is to say , to search the queen herself .
you kill me. ” “ Be satisfied ; you are not guilty toward me , and I have already pardoned you. ” “ What next ?
And now , good-night ; go to your rooms , and try to sleep away all recollections of this evening .
But beneath this superficial calm there were in the heart of the young man , and perhaps in that of the old man , many repressed desires , many stifled sighs , which found vent when Faria was left alone , and when Edmond returned to his cell .
If you refuse this right you may kill me , but I shall not fight. ” “ It is but fair , ” said Porthos and Aramis , hoping he would choose one of them .
The abbé was a man of the world , and had , moreover , mixed in the first society of the day ; he wore an air of melancholy dignity which Dantès , thanks to the imitative powers bestowed on him by nature , easily acquired , as well as that outward polish and politeness he had before been wanting in , and which is seldom possessed except by those who have been placed in constant intercourse with persons of high birth and breeding .
sir ! ” said Raoul , “ allow me , after thanking you for that poor fellow ’ s life , to thank you on my own account .
We will travel on horseback as far as our horses can go and afterward we can take the post .
Of this treaty , at least , I have been warned .
But these considerations never occurred to the duke and every day the cardinal received fresh accounts of him which were as unpleasant as possible to the minister .
The betrothed had retired , as we said , with haughty air , disdainful lip , and the demeanor of an outraged queen , followed by her companion , who was paler and more disturbed than herself .
“ Apply to the steward on the first day of every month , and you will receive the same sum. ” “ There now , again you degrade me. ” “ How so ? ” “ By making me apply to the servants , when I want to transact business with you alone. ” “ Well , be it so , then .
And Athos—I don ’ t see Athos .
D ’ Artagnan , whose mind was never more fertile in resources than in critical emergencies , swore again that he would try all conceivable means to prevent the dénouement of the bloody tragedy .
He saw that the duke was searching for a means of making him accept something and the idea that the blood of his friends and himself was about to be paid for with English gold was strangely repugnant to him .
“ You are only betrayed. ” The king sighed deeply .
Nothing ! ” “ My faith !
Let us be on our guard. ” “ Oh !
“ A paltry piece of business ! ” murmured D ’ Artagnan crumpling his note .
CAPTIVITY : THE THIRD DAY Felton had fallen ; but there was still another step to be taken .
A key was inserted in the lock of the first door , and the creaking of hinges was audible .
The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work .
He has been fortifying you , his beloved child , against the fatal effects of the poison , which has failed because your system was already impregnated with it .
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Count of Monte Cristo , Illustrated This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
“ This insolent boy chastises others , ” cried he ; “ and I hope that this time he whom he ought to chastise will not escape him as before. ” “ Will not escape him ? ” replied the stranger , knitting his brow .
“ The story interests you , does it not , sir ? ” inquired Caderousse .
Never mind where he is , let you and I go and see what is to be done for our poor friends. ” During this conversation , Dantès , after having exchanged a cheerful shake of the hand with all his sympathizing friends , had surrendered himself to the officer sent to arrest him , merely saying , “ Make yourselves quite easy , my good fellows , there is some little mistake to clear up , that ’ s all , depend upon it ; and very likely I may not have to go so far as the prison to effect that. ” 0075m “ Oh , to be sure ! ” responded Danglars , who had now approached the group , “ nothing more than a mistake , I feel quite certain. ” Dantès descended the staircase , preceded by the magistrate , and followed by the soldiers .
The host had the appearance of as honest a man as any on earth .
Though we scarcely expected it , our secret remained in our own keeping alone .
“ Whose , then , is the air we breathe ?
In 2001 , the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations .
While exclaiming loudly against duels and brawls , they excited them secretly to quarrel , deriving an immoderate satisfaction or genuine regret from the success or defeat of their own combatants .
The host opened .
So , then , the rabbit dies , and justice takes no notice .
Although my name , or rather that of my brother , would be mixed up with the affair , I will risk the scandal of a public trial to make myself certain of getting rid of you. ” Milady made no reply , but became as pale as a corpse .
“ That is , whether you really love me ? ” “ I have given you proof of that , it seems to me. ” “ And I am yours , body and soul ! ” “ Thanks , my brave lover ; but as you are satisfied of my love , you must , in your turn , satisfy me of yours .
Now my fault is repaired .
In one second Athos joined him .
The messenger was unmoved .
Blaisois was in a state of great excitement ; he was in ecstasies .
Look at the Comte de la Fere , a type of nobility , a flower of chivalry .
Lord Winter ’ s tent was pitched by the side of the royal marquee , a kind of corridor communicating between the two .
THE CARMELITE CONVENT AT BÉTHUNE Great criminals bear about them a kind of predestination which makes them surmount all obstacles , which makes them escape all dangers , up to the moment which a wearied Providence has marked as the rock of their impious fortunes .
The first person to attract the attention of Dantès , as he landed on the Canebière , was one of the crew belonging to the _Pharaon_ .
His eyes became fixed upon a point of the sea , commanded by the terrace where he was .
Woe to you , M. de Villefort , if you do not strike first ! ’ This is what I would say had she only killed two persons but she has seen three deaths , —has contemplated three murdered persons , —has knelt by three corpses !
This noble gentleman with his lofty glance , this handsome cavalier , so brilliant in feats of arms that every one was surprised that he held in his hand a sword only instead of a baton of command !
Now let us try to take our revenge. ” “ I will assist you with all my heart , monseigneur ; be assured of that. ” “ How did it come about ? ” “ At half past twelve the queen was with her women— ” “ Where ? ” “ In her bedchamber— ” “ Go on. ” “ When someone came and brought her a handkerchief from her laundress. ” “ And then ? ” “ The queen immediately exhibited strong emotion ; and despite the rouge with which her face was covered evidently turned pale— ” “ And then , and then ? ” “ She then arose , and with altered voice , ‘ Ladies , ’ said she , ‘ wait for me ten minutes , I shall soon return. ’ She then opened the door of her alcove , and went out. ” “ Why did not Madame de Lannoy come and inform you instantly ? ” “ Nothing was certain ; besides , her Majesty had said , ‘ Ladies , wait for me , ’ and she did not dare to disobey the queen. ” “ How long did the queen remain out of the chamber ? ” “ Three-quarters of an hour. ” “ None of her women accompanied her ? ” “ Only Donna Estafania. ” “ Did she afterward return ? ” “ Yes ; but only to take a little rosewood casket , with her cipher upon it , and went out again immediately. ” “ And when she finally returned , did she bring that casket with her ? ” “ No. ” “ Does Madame de Lannoy know what was in that casket ? ” “ Yes ; the diamond studs which his Majesty gave the queen. ” “ And she came back without this casket ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Madame de Lannoy , then , is of opinion that she gave them to Buckingham ? ” “ She is sure of it. ” “ How can she be so ? ” “ In the course of the day Madame de Lannoy , in her quality of tire-woman of the queen , looked for this casket , appeared uneasy at not finding it , and at length asked information of the queen. ” “ And then the queen ? ” “ The queen became exceedingly red , and replied that having in the evening broken one of those studs , she had sent it to her goldsmith to be repaired. ” “ He must be called upon , and so ascertain if the thing be true or not. ” “ I have just been with him. ” “ And the goldsmith ? ” “ The goldsmith has heard nothing of it. ” “ Well , well !
“ Good-evening , Valentine , ” said a well-known voice .
There was a dispute among the guards .
The poor girl originally possessed much more than that ; she was born to treasures in comparison with which those recorded in the _Thousand and One Nights_ would seem but poverty. ” “ She must be a princess then. ” “ You are right ; and she is one of the greatest in her country too. ” “ I thought so .
“ Now , my excellent Signor Pastrini , ” said Franz , addressing his landlord , “ since we are both ready , do you think we may proceed at once to visit the Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ Most assuredly , ” replied he .
“ Oh , the women , the women ! ” cried the old soldier .
Thrown over the foot of the royal bed , my simar , madame , looks not unlike the mantle worn by kings. ” This was one of the humiliations which Mazarin made Anne undergo more frequently than any other , and one that bowed her head with shame .
The police had orders to make the strictest search for the murderer .
The Monte Pincio seemed a vast amphitheatre filled with spectators ; the balconies of the two churches at the corner of the Via del Babuino and the Via di Ripetta were crammed ; the steps even seemed a parti-colored sea , that was impelled towards the portico ; every niche in the wall held its living statue .
But De Winter did not call ; crushed , enfeebled , he remained standing and with listening ear ; then only when he had heard the step of the horse going away he fell back on a chair , saying : “ My God , I thank Thee that he knows me only. ” Chapter XLI .
You know , Maximilian , grandpapa once thought of leaving this house , and taking an apartment away from M. de Villefort ’ s. ” “ Yes , ” said Maximilian , “ I recollect the project , of which I highly approved. ” “ Well , ” said Valentine , “ you may approve again , for grandpapa is again thinking of it. ” “ Bravo , ” said Maximilian .
Be silent , dear Du Vallon , and resign yourself. ” “ Adieu , gentlemen , ” said De Comminges ; “ sleep well ! ” “ We will try. ” De Comminges went away , D ’ Artagnan remaining apparently in the same attitude of humble resignation ; but scarcely had he departed when he turned and clasped Porthos in his arms with an expression not to be doubted .
“ Well , ” cried he , with that benevolent politeness which distinguished his salutation from the common civilities of the world , “ my cavalier has attained his object .
For the last month this wretched house had presented the gloomy appearance of a lazaretto infected with the plague .
It was plain , by a paleness still greater than usual , and by those traces which loss of sleep leaves on the face , that he must have passed almost the whole of the night without sleeping .
Did you see poor Barrois die ? ” Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven .
I have lost my appetite , and my stomach feels as if it were struggling to get accustomed to something. ” Noirtier did not lose a word of what Valentine said .
_Pardieu ! _ if we may believe the signs Grimaud is making , we are about to have to do with a very different number of people .
What could be his intentions towards him ?
Hitherto the excitement of fulfilling a duty had sustained them .
He conjured the evil spirit with abundance of prayers offered up by the monks .
“ Now , then , ” said the duke , and as he spoke , lowered the cane almost level with the ground ; “ Pistache , my friend , jump for the ‘ Illustrious Coxcomb , Mazarin de Piscina. ’ ” The dog turned his back to the cane .
Oh , yes !
Even Ali , who had hastened to obey the Count ’ s summons , went forth from his master ’ s presence in charmed amazement at the unusual animation and pleasure depicted on features ordinarily so stern and cold ; while , as though dreading to put to flight the agreeable ideas hovering over his patron ’ s meditations , whatever they were , the faithful Nubian walked on tiptoe towards the door , holding his breath , lest its faintest sound should dissipate his master ’ s happy reverie .
To my offer of liberty , he replied that it was nothing but a snare , and that before he came out he intended to impose his own conditions .
I am not a fighting man at all , monsieur , and I am afraid of the Bastille. ” “ Hum ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Arrived at the foot of the back stairs , he desired them to wait .
You can understand , can you not , that to have acted as I have done , to have broken that glass , to have intruded on the solitude of a friend—you can understand that , to have done all this , I must have been actuated by real uneasiness , or rather by a terrible conviction .
At the corner of the Cimetiere Saint Jean , D ’ Artagnan upset a man ; it was too insignificant an occurrence to delay people so eager to get on .
If the second copy is also defective , you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem .
“ It is a beautiful diamond left by poor Edmond Dantès , to be sold , and the money divided between his father , Mercédès , his betrothed bride , Fernand , Danglars , and myself .
“ Your profession ? ” “ First I was a forger , ” answered Andrea , as calmly as possible ; “ then I became a thief , and lately have become an assassin. ” A murmur , or rather storm , of indignation burst from all parts of the assembly .
“ Has the queen any further commands for me now ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ Before God and before men , ” said he , “ I accuse this woman of having caused the assassination of the Duke of Buckingham. ” “ The Duke of Buckingham assassinated ! ” cried all present , with one voice .
“ P .
But even if you had caused me to wait a little while , I should have felt quite sure that the delay was not occasioned by any fault of yours. ” “ Your excellency is perfectly right in so thinking , ” said the man ; “ I came here direct from the Castle of St. Angelo , and I had an immense deal of trouble before I could get a chance to speak to Beppo. ” “ And who is Beppo ? ” “ Oh , Beppo is employed in the prison , and I give him so much a year to let me know what is going on within his holiness ’ s castle. ” “ Indeed !
M. Cavalcanti , his father , had been seen in Paris , and it was expected that he would re-appear to claim the illustrious outcast .
Shrubs and creeping plants covered the windows , and hid from the garden and court these two apartments , the only rooms into which , as they were on the ground floor , the prying eyes of the curious could penetrate .
He turned around , recognized Athos and Aramis and held out his hand to them .
“ The more reason they should be sulky with us for having captured the Stuart , for whom , I hope , you ’ re preparing a pretty trial. ” “ Why , ” said Groslow , “ that is just what we are taking him to London for. ” “ And you never by any chance lose sight of him , I presume ? ” “ I should think not , indeed .
Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change .
“ The treasure I speak of really exists , and I offer to sign an agreement with you , in which I promise to lead you to the spot where you shall dig ; and if I deceive you , bring me here again , —I ask no more. ” The governor laughed .
“ Patience ! ” cried Athos ; “ one of our party is still wanting. ” The four horsemen looked round them with astonishment , for they sought vainly in their minds to know who this other person could be .
“ Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I am going out for all day , perhaps .
Light me , M. Bertuccio , and go first ; we will see where it leads to. ” “ Monsieur , ” replied Bertuccio , “ it leads to the garden. ” “ And , pray , how do you know that ? ” “ It ought to do so , at least. ” “ Well , let us be sure of that. ” Bertuccio sighed , and went on first ; the stairs did , indeed , lead to the garden .
Athos slowly raised his pistol , stretched out his arm so that the weapon almost touched Milady ’ s forehead , and then , in a voice the more terrible from having the supreme calmness of a fixed resolution , “ Madame , ” said he , “ you will this instant deliver to me the paper the cardinal signed ; or upon my soul , I will blow your brains out. ” With another man , Milady might have preserved some doubt ; but she knew Athos .
M. d ’ Avrigny alone had followed Madame de Villefort with his eyes , and watched her hurried retreat .
But one morning at the commencement of the month of November everything was explained to him by this letter , dated from Villeroy : M. D ’ ARTAGNAN , MM .
Still further , his confidence in the worthy Picard , at one time so great , diminished day by day .
0059m “ When one thinks , ” said Caderousse , letting his hand drop on the paper , “ there is here wherewithal to kill a man more sure than if we waited at the corner of a wood to assassinate him !
50085m M. de Villefort staggered and buried his head in the bed .
“ See , they are here. ” And at the same minute a carriage with smoking horses , accompanied by two mounted gentlemen , arrived at the gate , which opened before them .
I said all that a man in such a state could say ; but they both assured me that it was a jest they were carrying on , and perfectly harmless. ” “ Next day—next day , sir , you must have seen plain enough what they had been doing , yet you said nothing , though you were present when Dantès was arrested. ” “ Yes , sir , I was there , and very anxious to speak ; but Danglars restrained me .
It was Mousqueton , who was obeying his master ’ s command .
At this moment a horse without a rider , covered with foam , his nostrils extended and eyes all fire , galloped up , and recognizing his master , stopped and neighed with pleasure ; it was Arthur .
the prisoners are escaping ! ” cried the sergeant .
Swear to me , then , never to let them put a crown upon your head unless you have a legal right to the crown .
“ Oh , sir , ” exclaimed M. de Boville , “ your fears are unfortunately but too well founded , and you see before you a man in despair .
The count perceived at one glance Madame Danglars at one end of the drawing-room , M. Danglars at the other , and Eugénie in front of him .
Perhaps it was a mere whim on his part , for he is falling , they say , into second childhood , but I love him for showing so much interest in you. ” “ How singular , ” murmured Maximilian ; “ your father hates me , while your grandfather , on the contrary—What strange feelings are aroused by politics. ” “ Hush , ” cried Valentine , suddenly ; “ someone is coming ! ” Maximilian leaped at one bound into his crop of lucern , which he began to pull up in the most ruthless way , under the pretext of being occupied in weeding it .
Dantès must be crushed to gratify Villefort ’ s ambition .
Chapter LXXXIV .
His three companions joined him .
But excuse me , sir , for talking of our domestic misfortunes ; I interrupted you at the moment when you were telling me that you were a skilful chemist. ” “ No , madame , I did not say as much as that , ” replied the count with a smile ; “ quite the contrary .
Two men , wrapped in their cloaks , appeared .
With this light was extinguished the last irresolution in the heart of D ’ Artagnan .
Are you also in accord with Spain and England , with Madame de Chevreuse and the queen ? ” “ Sire , ” replied the cardinal , sighing , “ I believed myself secure from such a suspicion. ” “ Monsieur Cardinal , you have heard me ; I will have those letters. ” “ There is but one way. ” “ What is that ? ” “ That would be to charge Monsieur de Séguier , the keeper of the seals , with this mission .
Do not copy , display , perform , distribute or redistribute this electronic work , or any part of this electronic work , without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg™ License .
He appeared just at that moment of stupor which follows great catastrophes .
Since the bandits had not despatched him at once , he felt that they would not kill him at all .
“ Oh , ” said he , “ is it you , captain ?
“ Avenge me of that infamous De Wardes , ” said Milady , between her teeth , “ and I shall soon know how to get rid of you—you double idiot , you animated sword blade ! ” “ Fall voluntarily into my arms , hypocritical and dangerous woman , ” said D ’ Artagnan , likewise to himself , “ after having abused me with such effrontery , and afterward I will laugh at you with him whom you wish me to kill. ” D ’ Artagnan lifted up his head .
D ’ Artagnan continued : “ Before God and before men , I accuse this woman of having attempted to poison me , in wine which she sent me from Villeroy , with a forged letter , as if that wine came from my friends .
Listen , madame , and recall your remembrances .
Porthos , who could never see anything that was not self-evident , talked to him as usual .
All the events we have described had taken place within a half hour .
“ My dear fellow , be a Musketeer or an abbé .
“ Silence , ” he said , “ or you are lost .
At the end of a moment ’ s conversation , in which Porthos hinted that a lady of elevated rank had condescended to relieve him from his embarrassment , Mousqueton entered .
“ Madame , ” said he , “ you are about to receive a visit from the chancellor , who will communicate certain matters to you with which I have charged him. ” The unfortunate queen , who was constantly threatened with divorce , exile , and trial even , turned pale under her rouge , and could not refrain from saying , “ But why this visit , sire ?
I could not have believed she would risk her liberty for me , and yet for what other cause could she have returned to Paris ? ” “ For the cause which today takes us to England. ” “ And what is this cause ? ” demanded Aramis .
In one of the despatches the cardinal declares to the queen that the treasury is empty and that her majesty has no more money .
Faria smiled encouragingly on him , and the young man retired to his task , in the spirit of obedience and respect which he had sworn to show towards his aged friend .
“ I understand you , Fernand ; you would be revenged on him because I do not love you ; you would cross your Catalan knife with his dirk .
Be easy , I am a gentleman .
Never fear quarrels , but seek adventures .
You are aware what huge whitings are served to us on _maigre_ days .
The appearance of the third gendarme settled the matter , for a crowd of curious loungers was extended before him , effectually blocking the entrance to the hotel .
“ Neither of them there ! ” she again said , as though striving to impress herself with the meaning of the words which escaped her .
ignorant of their real enemies , they do not perceive that it is not the Italian who speaks French badly , but those who can say fine things to them in the purest Parisian accent , who are their real foes .
who could have said so the evening before ?
With the hundred pistoles we can live well to the end of the month .
Villefort , while turning restlessly on the cushions , felt something press against him .
“ I found my knife where I had placed it , under my pillow , and while feigning to sleep , my hand grasped the handle of it convulsively .
Carlini returned , anxious to see his mistress , and announce the joyful intelligence .
“ Now that I expect nothing , now that I no longer entertain the slightest hopes , the end of this adventure becomes simply a matter of curiosity. ” And he remained again motionless and thoughtful .
Very pretty ! ” But to the great astonishment of D ’ Artagnan , the shutter remained closed .
“ Then what ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
It was evident he had his orders .
Moreover , great liberty prevailed throughout the immense crowd ; every opinion was openly expressed and chorused , so to speak , of coming insurrection , as the thousand bells of all the Paris churches rang out the Te Deum .
’ tis thou , rascal ! ” said he , “ come here : so thou hast changed thy trade ; thou art no longer a choir boy nor a tavern boy ; thou hast become a horse stealer ? ” “ Ah , your honor , how can you say so ? ” exclaimed Friquet .
“ Monsieur the Comte de la Fere , ” he cried , “ I supplicate you !
“ She was forced to return to Tours ; she is not faithless ; she still loves me !
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States .
One day , when the king had halted to fly the magpie , and the four friends , according to their custom , instead of following the sport had stopped at a cabaret on the high road , a man coming from la Rochelle on horseback pulled up at the door to drink a glass of wine , and darted a searching glance into the room where the four Musketeers were sitting .
At the next inn you will find a wounded man , now being attended by our servants , who has asked the assistance of a minister of God. ” “ I will go , ” said the monk .
Milady , on the contrary , was quite conversant with all aristocratic intrigues , amid which she had constantly lived for five or six years .
I have nothing to give you , my son , but fifteen crowns , my horse , and the counsels you have just heard .
“ Higher , monsieur , higher. ” “ Of Madame d ’ Aiguillon ? ” “ Still higher. ” “ Of Madame de Chevreuse ? ” “ Higher , much higher. ” “ Of the— ” D ’ Artagnan checked himself .
I can get you out of Paris and leave you beyond the barriere , and can return for her. ” “ Capital ; but how will you get me out of Paris ? ” “ Oh !
There are the horses .
Only , in order to satisfy himself that it really belongs to us , he wishes you to relate to him , as I have done already , the miraculous manner in which the diamond came into our possession .
The coadjutor returned to parliament more a monarch than king , queen , and cardinal , all three together .
A movement of fury called to his side some twenty of his musketeers , and pointing to the bench where his enemies were : “ Fire on that bench ! ” he cried .
He recalled to his mind the details of the first night , and with a beating heart and a brain on fire he re-entered the hôtel and flew toward Kitty ’ s chamber .
From him whom you have rendered the happiest of men , COMTE DE WARDES This note was in the first place a forgery ; it was likewise an indelicacy .
“ Ho !
They reached the Rue St. Honoré , and in the Place du Palais-Cardinal they found the twelve invited Musketeers , walking about in expectation of their comrades .
Two of the men appeared , bearing the woman in their arms , and carried her to the carriage , into which the little old man got after her .
“ Let us see , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Anne then motioned to D ’ Artagnan to approach , and he obeyed .
“ You particularly wish it ? ” asked he .
“ But beneath my fingers , as if by magic , in proportion as the fire ascended , I saw yellowish characters appear on the paper .
Mordaunt , therefore , raised the canvas , and saw Cromwell seated before a table , his head buried in his hands , his back being turned .
His glance , at first wandering , fixed itself upon Morrel .
The sentinel was unwilling to leave his post , but allowed Parry to pass .
He has deceived her in her love , humbled her in her pride , thwarted her in her ambition ; and now he ruins her fortune , deprives her of liberty , and even threatens her life .
Planchet , ” said he .
And then , sir , do you wish me to speak freely to you ? ” continued D ’ Artagnan , with his frank expression .
He should have waited for me here with a cabriolet till half-past eleven ; it is twelve , and , tired of waiting , he must have gone on. ” “ It is likely. ” “ Well , will you try and overtake him ? ” “ Nothing I should like better. ” “ If you do not overtake him before we reach Bourget you shall have twenty francs ; if not before Louvres , thirty. ” “ And if we do overtake him ? ” “ Forty , ” said Andrea , after a moment ’ s hesitation , at the end of which he remembered that he might safely promise .
“ We did not see his companion come out. ” “ He may have gone by the other door. ” “ What is he doing ? ” “ Putting on his cloak and gloves. ” “ He ’ s ours , ” muttered D ’ Artagnan .
when one thinks that for twenty years , during which time I did not know what to do with myself , it never occurred to me to come to study Rueil. ” “ What difference does that make ? ” said Porthos .
I became weary of ranging fields and scaling walls , and seriously alarmed at the idea suggested by you , that if caught hovering about here your father would very likely have me sent to prison as a thief .
M. Danglars appeared ; Debray reseated himself .
What I do care for now , is to make my way into the Jesuits ’ convent ; so to horse and let us knock at their door .
“ Aha ! ” said the brigadier , stopping the servant , “ the person who is ringing appears to want something more than a waiter ; we will attend upon him with a gendarme .
“ My word , ” said de Winter , rising , “ I think the hussy is going mad !
He has followed us several times , as I think , when I have waited for my wife at the wicket of the Louvre to escort her home. ” The commissary now appeared to experience a little uneasiness .
The next morning , at nine o ’ clock , he entered Franz ’ s room , followed by a tailor , who had eight or ten Roman peasant costumes on his arm ; they selected two exactly alike , and charged the tailor to sew on each of their hats about twenty yards of ribbon , and to procure them two of the long silk sashes of different colors with which the lower orders decorate themselves on fête days .
No , do not seek any longer to discover the reason .
Meanwhile , the soldiers whose duty it was to remain in the king ’ s room , attracted by that love of play so powerful in all men , had stolen little by little toward the table , and standing on tiptoe , lounged , watching the game , over the shoulders of D ’ Artagnan and Porthos .
More dead than alive , he looked around him .
They seemed to understand each other so well , ” said Monte Cristo with renewed energy .
He had walked as one walks in a dream ; he had a glimpse of objects as through a fog .
“ But it is not my fault , as I shall endeavor to prove. ” Everyone listened eagerly ; Monte Cristo who so rarely opened his lips , was about to speak .
Perhaps it was the Christian exhortations of the abbé , perhaps his kind charity , perhaps his persuasive words , which had restored the courage of Noirtier , for ever since he had conversed with the priest his violent despair had yielded to a calm resignation which surprised all who knew his excessive affection for Valentine .
Haydée It will be recollected that the new , or rather old , acquaintances of the Count of Monte Cristo , residing in the Rue Meslay , were no other than Maximilian , Julie , and Emmanuel .
Now go. ” He made a sign to Cocles , who went first ; the seamen followed him and Emmanuel brought up the rear .
Grimaud , who held the piece of glass in his hand , said : “ Sharp. ” “ True , my lord ! ” exclaimed La Ramee .
Like a genuine Frenchman , Albert had employed his time in arranging for the evening ’ s diversion ; he had sent to engage a box at the Teatro Argentina ; and Franz , having a number of letters to write , relinquished the carriage to Albert for the whole of the day .
The spectre of Valentine rising before the poisoner would have alarmed her less .
Accept that which the bearer brings you ; make the campaign like a handsome true gentleman , and think of me , who kisses tenderly your black eyes .
Charles Stuart , you are our prisoner. ” And both extended their hands as if to seize the king , but before they could touch him with the tips of their fingers , both had fallen , one dead , the other stunned .
As a reply , he wrote the following letter : Do not depend upon me , madame , for the next meeting .
The abbé replaced the large spectacles , which covered not only his eyes but his temples , and sitting down motioned to his visitor to do the same .
“ Oh , yes , yes ; this instant , I entreat you. ” In a moment that part of the floor on which Dantès was resting his two hands , as he knelt with his head in the opening , suddenly gave way ; he drew back smartly , while a mass of stones and earth disappeared in a hole that opened beneath the aperture he himself had formed .
“ What ? ” replied the Englishman .
HIS MAJESTY KING LOUIS XIII .
When D ’ Artagnan arrived in sight of the bare spot of ground which extended along the foot of the monastery , Athos had been waiting about five minutes , and twelve o ’ clock was striking .
“ I am very ignorant of these matters , ” said the abbess , at length ; “ but however distant from the court we may be , however remote from the interests of the world we may be placed , we have very sad examples of what you have related .
“ Come , come , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ more reason why we should start on our journey .
“ What , no wine ?
Besides , D ’ Artagnan from her own admission knew Milady culpable of treachery in matters more important , and could entertain no respect for her .
“ Gracious heavens ! ” exclaimed Dantès , “ what is the matter ?
When I am rich I will order a statue of Chance from Klagmann or Marochetti. ” “ Yes , ” said Morrel , smiling , “ it was the 5th of September , the anniversary of the day on which my father was miraculously preserved ; therefore , as far as it lies in my power , I endeavor to celebrate it by some—— ” 20237m “ Heroic action , ” interrupted Château-Renaud .
[ 15 ] A Turkish pasha in command of the troops of a province.—Ed .
Furnished with this plunder , Andrea leaped with a lighter heart from the window , intending to slip through the hands of the gendarmes .
It seems to me that we once rendered Anne of Austria a service not much less than that which to-day we are trying to perform for Charles I. ; but , none the less , Anne of Austria has forgotten us for twenty years. ” “ Well , in spite of that , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , “ you are not sorry that you were useful to her ? ” “ No , indeed , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I admit even that in my darkest moments I find consolation in that remembrance. ” “ You see , then , D ’ Artagnan , though princes often are ungrateful , God never is. ” “ Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I believe that were you to fall in with the devil , you would conduct yourself so well that you would take him with you to Heaven. ” “ So , then ? ” said Athos , offering his hand to D ’ Artagnan .
Have you never heard what Oliver Cromwell said when he came to Paris and was shown the dungeon at Vincennes where Monsieur de Vendome was imprisoned ? ” “ What did he say ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Devil take these civil wars !
But Aramis was livid .
You would not have me marry under such sad auspices ? ” “ My child , ” exclaimed the old lady sharply , “ let us hear none of the conventional objections that deter weak minds from preparing for the future .
This poor fellow , whom Caderousse had forgotten , had not forgotten him , and at his death he bequeathed this diamond to him. ’ “ ‘ But how did he obtain it ? ’ asked the jeweller ; ‘ had he it before he was imprisoned ? ’ “ ‘ No , monsieur ; but it appears that in prison he made the acquaintance of a rich Englishman , and as in prison he fell sick , and Dantès took the same care of him as if he had been his brother , the Englishman , when he was set free , gave this stone to Dantès , who , less fortunate , died , and , in his turn , left it to us , and charged the excellent abbé , who was here this morning , to deliver it. ’ “ ‘ The same story , ’ muttered the jeweller ; ‘ and improbable as it seemed at first , it may be true .
“ Impossible ! ” cried Milady .
five letters to put before his three names , a tiny coronet to paint upon the panels of his carriage !
I never had a vocation for the bands ; my cassock is fastened by one button only , and I am always ready to become a musketeer once more .
There are such in the world , and God will doubtless reward them in heaven for their resignation on earth , but those who mean to contend must not lose one precious moment , but must return immediately the blow which fortune strikes .
“ What ?
All these old soldiers commit excesses which were tolerated in the time of the emperor , but which are not suffered now , for the people here do not like soldiers of such disorderly conduct. ’ “ ‘ Monsieur , ’ I replied , ‘ it is not for myself that I entreat your interference—I should grieve for him or avenge him , but my poor brother had a wife , and were anything to happen to me , the poor creature would perish from want , for my brother ’ s pay alone kept her .
To which the others had responded that they would be glad to see the gallows erected ; they would serve for the hanging of those detestable judges who purchased favor at court at the price of the people ’ s misery .
so much the better !
To all the simple things which escaped our Gascon , Milady replied with a smile of kindness .
Bonacieux .
I expected , as I told you , to reach the outer wall , pierce through it , and throw myself into the sea ; I have , however , kept along the corridor on which your chamber opens , instead of going beneath it .
ah yes ! ” Mazarin bit his lips as he spoke ; “ I know your devotion to her majesty. ” “ I have been a captain in the queen ’ s guards for twenty years , ” was the reply .
D ’ Artagnan , you are a great man ; and when you occupy Monsieur de Tréville ’ s place , I will come and ask your influence to secure me an abbey. ” “ Well , I am in a maze , ” said Porthos ; “ do _you_ approve of what D ’ Artagnan has done ? ” “ _Parbleu ! _ Indeed I do , ” said Athos ; “ I not only approve of what he has done , but I congratulate him upon it. ” “ And now , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , without stopping to explain his conduct to Porthos , “ All for one , one for all—that is our motto , is it not ? ” “ And yet— ” said Porthos .
He prayed and supplicated in terms so moving , that even the officer was touched , and , although firm in his duty , he kindly said , “ My worthy friend , let me beg of you to calm your apprehensions .
He sank into his seat , and hastily turning over the packet , drew forth the fatal letter , at which he glanced with an expression of terror .
A deathlike silence reigned in the room above .
Come ! ” Milady opened the window , and made a sign to Mme .
GEORGE VILLIERS , DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM Chapter XIII .
I was brought up in the country , and my father in his leisure time was something of a poacher. ” “ And what did he do the rest of his time ? ” “ Monsieur , he carried on a trade which I have always thought satisfactory. ” “ Which ? ” “ As it was a time of war between the Catholics and the Huguenots , and as he saw the Catholics exterminate the Huguenots and the Huguenots exterminate the Catholics—all in the name of religion—he adopted a mixed belief which permitted him to be sometimes Catholic , sometimes a Huguenot .
“ You see it is a serious annoyance , ” said Morcerf , when Beauchamp had finished the perusal of the paragraph .
At length Villefort , the most composed of all , spoke : “ Sir , ” said he to Maximilian , “ you say you loved Valentine , that you were betrothed to her .
28 was situated at the extremity of the village ; during the drive night had set in , and darkness gave the surroundings the artificial appearance of a scene on the stage .
On the fourth , he was no longer a man , but a living corpse .
“ Ah , monseigneur , do not mention it ! ” cried the host , in the most pitiable voice imaginable .
Teresa followed him with her eyes into the darkness as long as she could , and when he had quite disappeared , she went into the house with a sigh .
Adieu , dear sister , till your next swoon ! ” This was all that Milady could endure .
A man who accustoms himself to live in such a world of poetry and imagination must find far too little excitement in a common , every-day sort of attachment such as ours .
directly my father caught the sound of your name he turned round quite hastily , and , like a poor silly thing , I was so persuaded that everyone must be as much affected as myself by the utterance of your name , that I was not surprised to see my father start , and almost tremble ; but I even thought ( though that surely must have been a mistake ) that M. Danglars trembled too. ” “ ‘ Morrel , Morrel , ’ cried my father , ‘ stop a bit ; ’ then knitting his brows into a deep frown , he added , ‘ surely this can not be one of the Morrel family who lived at Marseilles , and gave us so much trouble from their violent Bonapartism—I mean about the year 1815. ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ replied M. Danglars , ‘ I believe he is the son of the old shipowner. ’ ” “ Indeed , ” answered Maximilian ; “ and what did your father say then , Valentine ? ” “ Oh , such a dreadful thing , that I don ’ t dare to tell you. ” “ Always tell me everything , ” said Maximilian with a smile .
The storm broke about ten o ’ clock .
Bonacieux ; “ therefore , ask my own secrets , and I will reveal them to you ; but those of others—that is quite another thing. ” “ Very well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I shall discover them ; as these secrets may have an influence over your life , these secrets must become mine. ” “ Beware of what you do ! ” cried the young woman , in a manner so serious as to make D ’ Artagnan start in spite of himself .
“ Have you , Monsieur le Gascon ? ” asked Mazarin , supporting his elbows on his desk and his chin on his hands .
Have I not my talent left ?
Let the man go , D ’ Artagnan ; let us save the woman. ” “ Monsieur , monsieur ! ” cried a hostler , running out and looking after the stranger , “ monsieur , here is a paper which dropped out of your hat !
“ Yes , ” answered Maximilian , “ but I feel sure he has an excellent heart , and that he likes us. ” “ His voice went to my heart , ” observed Julie ; “ and two or three times I fancied that I had heard it before. ” Chapter 51 .
“ Certainly ; as M. Danglars says , you are rich , and perfectly free .
“ Count , ” returned Signor Pastrini , hurt at Albert ’ s repeated doubts of the truth of his assertions , “ I do not say this to you , but to your companion , who knows Rome , and knows , too , that these things are not to be laughed at. ” “ My dear fellow , ” said Albert , turning to Franz , “ here is an admirable adventure ; we will fill our carriage with pistols , blunderbusses , and double-barrelled guns .
“ Never mind , ” continued the young man , “ smuggler or not , you must agree , mother dear , as you have seen him , that the Count of Monte Cristo is a remarkable man , who will have the greatest success in the salons of Paris .
I then perceived that he was hiding something under his mantle , which he laid on the grass in order to dig more freely .
Two remained with the men in black , who rummaged every place and took all the papers .
This ball had an acrid and penetrating odor .
“ Nothing , ” replied the latter ; “ only , if the queen has the studs , which I very much doubt , count them , sire , and if you only find ten , ask her Majesty who can have stolen from her the two studs that are here. ” The king looked at the cardinal as if to interrogate him ; but he had not time to address any question to him—a cry of admiration burst from every mouth .
Come , answer frankly. ” “ _Ma foi_ , no , ” returned Albert .
The horses seemed to become more lively with each successive step ; their nostrils reddened like glowing furnaces .
“ Ah , ” said he to Debray , who had thrown himself into an easy-chair at the farthest extremity of the salon , and who held a pencil in his right hand and an account book in his left , “ what are you doing there ?
“ Give me your word , gentlemen , that you will not attack me otherwise than one after the other. ” “ Is it to have the pleasure of insulting us that you say that , my little viper ? ” “ No , but to set my mind at rest , as you observed just now. ” “ It is for something else than that , I imagine , ” muttered D ’ Artagnan , shaking his head doubtfully .
By the baroness he was most graciously welcomed , while Eugénie received him with her accustomed coldness .
“ Then it was not in society that I met with mademoiselle or yourself , madame , or this charming little merry boy .
“ But , for heaven ’ s sake— ” resumed Aramis .
Alone and free to act as he wished , the man then drew from his pocket something which the count could not discern , placed it on a stand , then went straight to the secretaire , felt the lock , and contrary to his expectation found that the key was missing .
The Château d ’ If The commissary of police , as he traversed the antechamber , made a sign to two gendarmes , who placed themselves one on Dantès ’ right and the other on his left .
As to his going or staying , I feel too much gratitude to the cardinal not to leave him free in all his actions ; he shall do what he wishes to do. ” A transient pallor overspread the speaking countenance of the prime minister ; he looked at the queen with anxiety .
He was alone—alone with these countless , these unheard-of treasures !
“ ‘ And what have you done to aspire to this honor ? ’ demanded the lieutenant .
He was telling me this morning that , tired of letting his property lie dormant in Italy , which is a dead nation , he wished to find a method , either in France or England , of multiplying his millions , but remember , that though I place great confidence in Busoni , I am not responsible for this. ” “ Never mind ; accept my thanks for the client you have sent me .
Do you fancy because you have heard Monsieur de Tréville speak to us a little cavalierly today that other people are to treat us as he speaks to us ?
“ Draw up this note for us , Aramis ; but by our Holy Father the Pope , cut it short , for I shall prune you in my turn , I warn you. ” “ I ask no better , ” said Aramis , with that ingenious air of confidence which every poet has in himself ; “ but let me be properly acquainted with the subject .
A CONJUGAL SCENE Chapter XLVI .
I defy you to find him who executed it. ” “ Silence ! ” said a hollow voice .
De Winter probably condemned the son as he had done the mother. ” “ Then , ” said Athos , “ woe to De Winter , for the child had done no harm. ” “ May the devil take me , if the child be not dead , ” said Porthos .
In short , I see you to tell you that we must never see each other again. ” “ Speak on , madame , speak on , Queen , ” said Buckingham ; “ the sweetness of your voice covers the harshness of your words .
Each boasted the bearing and the courage of his own people .
Two other men descended after Danglars forming the rearguard , and pushing Danglars whenever he happened to stop , they came by a gentle declivity to the intersection of two corridors .
I was informed that I was prisoner until I paid the sum of 4,000 Roman crowns—about 24,000 francs .
“ My Lord ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , enlightened by a sudden idea , “ my Lord !
To horse , my friends , to horse ! ” And the four friends flew at a gallop along the road to Béthune .
He would no longer be alone .
Danglars looked radiant with joy ; the banker accompanied him to the door .
Here , take this purse of a hundred pistoles , and pardon me. ” “ I pardon you , monseigneur ! ” said Bonacieux , hesitating to take the purse , fearing , doubtless , that this pretended gift was but a pleasantry .
“ That a nobleman whom he did not know had wished to take charge of it , had answered for its future , and had taken it away. ” “ That was true. ” “ Ah !
“ Waiting for whom ? ” Bertuccio , without answering , pointed to Villefort with something of the gesture Macbeth uses to point out Banquo .
With the instinct peculiar to lovers he had anticipated after the return of Madame de Saint-Méran and the death of the marquis , that something would occur at M. de Villefort ’ s in connection with his attachment for Valentine .
TWO VARIETIES OF DEMONS Ah , ” cried Milady and Rochefort together , “ it is you ! ” “ Yes , it is I. ” “ And you come ? ” asked Milady .
Notwithstanding the judges were so few the trial was to continue ; the king then , was condemned in advance .
The door at length was opened , and a man appeared , of high stature , pale complexion , and black hair and beard .
“ Light me ; I am going to the queen. ” Bernouin took up a candlestick and led the way .
We must never look for discretion in first love .
It was not fatigue that stayed Andrea here ; it was that he might form some resolution , adopt some plan .
The count was in his study and was reading with an angry look something which Bertuccio had brought in haste .
“ In the name of heaven , explain yourself ! ” “ Oh !
D ’ Artagnan spurred his horse on and pursued his road , followed by Planchet at the same pace .
He told how he had a rendezvous with a young woman before that pavilion , and how , not seeing her come , he had climbed the linden tree , and by the light of the lamp had seen the disorder of the chamber .
In the meantime the host and his wife hurried down with lamps into the cellar , which had so long been interdicted to them and where a frightful spectacle awaited them .
You can not think of humiliating me by prancing along by my side on that magnificent charger .
The delay demanded by Beauchamp had nearly expired .
Made a peer at the Restoration , I served through the first campaign under the orders of Marshal Bourmont .
Aramis , who was constantly at work at his poem , shut himself up in Athos ’ s closet , and begged not to be disturbed before the moment of drawing swords .
I will go with you. ” And he took his sword and cloak .
In the Lucern Patch Our readers must now allow us to transport them again to the enclosure surrounding M. de Villefort ’ s house , and , behind the gate , half screened from view by the large chestnut-trees , which on all sides spread their luxuriant branches , we shall find some people of our acquaintance .
“ My son , ” he said to him , “ you saw a great number of people in the streets as you came here .
Master Broussel is being strangled. ” It was Friquet ’ s voice ; and Dame Nanette , feeling herself supported , recommenced with all her strength to sound her shrilly squawk .
Most people start at our website which has the main PG search facility : www.gutenberg.org .
Now , excuse the indiscretion , marquis , but have you any landed property ? ” “ All my fortune is in the funds ; seven or eight hundred thousand francs. ” “ Then sell out—sell out , marquis , or you will lose it all. ” 0123m “ But how can I sell out here ? ” “ You have a broker , have you not ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Then give me a letter to him , and tell him to sell out without an instant ’ s delay , perhaps even now I shall arrive too late. ” “ The deuce you say ! ” replied the marquis , “ let us lose no time , then ! ” And , sitting down , he wrote a letter to his broker , ordering him to sell out at the market price .
The stranger touched his mule with his heel and continued his way .
Oh , that I could , instead of taking up this defence , shed my last drop of blood to prove to my noble colleagues that I am their equal in worth. ” These words made a favorable impression on behalf of the accused .
“ What can they have done with him ? ” “ Oh , he has been taken to Fenestrelles , to Pignerol , or to the Sainte-Marguérite islands .
Mazarin shrugged his shoulders and pretended to despise the populace ; but he turned visibly pale and ran to his closet , trembling all over , locked up his gold and jewels in his caskets and put his finest diamonds on his fingers .
I could drink four more such bottles ; they are no bigger than cologne flasks .
Chapter 19 .
There one may learn , for instance , what , out of regard to your nervous susceptibility , I will inform you of in the drawing-room , namely , that the credit of a banker is his physical and moral life ; that credit sustains him as breath animates the body ; and M. de Monte Cristo once gave me a lecture on that subject , which I have never forgotten .
When D ’ Artagnan returned to the Palais Royal at five o ’ clock , it presented , in spite of the excitement which reigned in the town , a spectacle of the greatest rejoicing .
Often in prison Faria had said to him , when he saw him idle and inactive : “ Dantès , you must not give way to this listlessness ; you will be drowned if you seek to escape , and your strength has not been properly exercised and prepared for exertion. ” These words rang in Dantès ’ ears , even beneath the waves ; he hastened to cleave his way through them to see if he had not lost his strength .
The latter , leaving the shore , abandoned themselves gaily to the current .
This time my determination is irrevocably taken .
Happiness or unhappiness is the secret known but to one ’ s self and the walls—walls have ears but no tongue ; but if a large fortune produces happiness , Danglars is happy. ” “ And Fernand ? ” “ Fernand ?
It was , indeed , Peppino who was preparing to mount guard as comfortably as possible by seating himself opposite to the door , and placing between his legs an earthen pan , containing chick-peas stewed with bacon .
* It is said that Mazarin , who , though a cardinal , had not taken such vows as to prevent it , was secretly married to Anne of Austria.—La Porte ’ s Memoirs .
And , like every other reflection passing in a mind that entertained none but noble thoughts , this feeling was expressed in his eyes .
The gratings are every day carefully examined by jailers , whose herculean proportions and cold pitiless expression prove them to have been chosen to reign over their subjects for their superior activity and intelligence .
“ You see I am generous , am I not , mother ? ” “ But you , my poor child ? ” “ I ?
“ That admiration is , on the contrary , so great , so real , madame , ” returned Mazarin , without noticing the change of language offered to him by the queen , “ that if the king , Charles I.—whom Heaven protect from evil ! —came into France , I would offer him my house—my own house ; but , alas !
It was now his turn to look about him ; the Hôtel de Ville , a massive sixteenth century building , was on his right ; anyone could descend from the openings in the tower , and examine every corner of the roof below , and Andrea expected momentarily to see the head of a gendarme appear at one of these openings .
Porthos bowed , as if in assent .
In five minutes they gained the land .
He felt ill at ease and at a loss what to do .
In case of any attempt to escape , the penalty of death is to be applied .
But however great was the power of this woman with eyes of flame in reading the hearts of those whose secrets she wished to divine , she met this time with a countenance of such impassivity that no discovery followed her investigation .
It was like the eve of a battle ; the heart beat , the eyes laughed , and they felt that the life they were perhaps going to lose , was , after all , a good thing .
“ Yes , ” said Athos , “ magnificent .
“ Yes. ” “ And who is it ? ” said Porthos .
It was indeed Madame Danglars and her daughter whom Valentine had seen ; they had been ushered into Madame de Villefort ’ s room , who had said she would receive them there .
Have you not heard that some one is coming here ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , that some one will open the doors. ” “ But , my dear fellow , if that some one recognizes us , if that some one cries out , we are lost ; for you don ’ t propose , I imagine , that I shall kill that man of the church .
“ By force ?
He was a man of twenty-five or twenty-six years of age , of unprepossessing countenance , obsequious to his superiors , insolent to his subordinates ; and this , in addition to his position as responsible agent on board , which is always obnoxious to the sailors , made him as much disliked by the crew as Edmond Dantès was beloved by them .
“ Groslow ! ” said Aramis ; “ the devil !
“ My prisoner ! ” he cried .
M. Morrel paid the expenses of his funeral , and a few small debts the poor old man had contracted .
“ What does this mean , Monsieur Cardinal ? ” asked the king in a severe tone .
“ This idea occurred to me , and did not leave me ; it is of this homicidal thought that I now bear the punishment. ” “ Continue , continue ! ” said Felton ; “ I am eager to see you attain your vengeance ! ” “ Oh , I resolved that it should take place as soon as possible .
She opened it quickly and read : “ Go this moment to the Allées de Meilhan , enter the house No .
I was obliged to brand the guilty one ; and he , gentlemen , was my brother !
“ Remain here , fasten the door inside , and open it to nobody unless you hear three taps like this ; ” and he tapped thrice—two taps close together and pretty hard , the other after an interval , and lighter .
She had many a time felt humiliated by the self-sacrifice and disinterestedness shown by the Gascon gentleman .
“ What you ask is impossible , monsieur , ” continued he , addressing Faria .
From time to time a broad sheet of lightning opened the horizon in its whole width , darted like a serpent over the black mass of trees , and like a terrible scimitar divided the heavens and the waters into two parts .
Athos made a sign to Porthos and Aramis also to remain in the rear , and advanced alone .
He heard me patiently , and when I had finished , burst out laughing .
_prorsus admirabile ! _ ” continued Aramis ; “ but which requires a profound study of both the Scriptures and the Fathers .
“ Mademoiselle de Villefort no longer requires help , ” said d ’ Avrigny , “ since she is dead. ” “ Dead , —dead ! ” groaned forth Villefort , in a paroxysm of grief , which was the more terrible from the novelty of the sensation in the iron heart of that man .
“ Well , my dear viscount , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I have an infallible remedy to propose to you. ” “ What is that ? ” asked the young man .
“ I , ” answered Mazarin , “ I shall not sleep at all ; I have work to do. ” Gaston desired that he should be shown into the room wherein he was to sleep , without in the least concerning himself as to where his wife and daughter were to repose .
Is it possible to insult you , madame ? ” said Athos , laughing ; “ he has insulted you , and he shall die ! ” “ He shall die ! ” replied Milady ; “ she first , and he afterward. ” Athos was seized with a kind of vertigo .
Porthos , kill every one who stands in your way. ” And after pressing the hand of Athos , D ’ Artagnan chose a moment when the ship rolled backward , so that he had only to plunge into the water , which was already up to his waist .
At the same time the count appeared to increase in stature , his form , nearly double its usual height , stood out in relief against the red tapestry , his black hair was thrown back , and he stood in the attitude of an avenging angel .
Monte Cristo called the owner , who immediately rowed up to him with the eagerness of a boatman hoping for a good fare .
There ’ s the article of remunerations and indemnifications to be discussed and set to rights. ” “ Chancellor , ” said the queen , turning to Seguier , our old acquaintance , “ you will open the conferences .
D ’ Artagnan felt a strong inclination to embrace Planchet as he had embraced him on his departure ; but he feared lest this mark of affection , bestowed upon his lackey in the open street , might appear extraordinary to passers-by , and he restrained himself .
Everything had turned out so differently from what he expected that he was stupefied with wonder .
“ ‘ Leave me , I command you. ’ “ Carlini obeyed , rejoined his comrades , folded himself in his cloak , and soon appeared to sleep as soundly as the rest .
‘ Selim , Selim ! ’ cried he , ‘ guardian of the fire , do your duty ! ’ — ‘ Selim is dead , ’ replied a voice which seemed to come from the depths of the earth , ‘ and you are lost , Ali ! ’ At the same moment an explosion was heard , and the flooring of the room in which my father was sitting was suddenly torn up and shivered to atoms—the troops were firing from underneath .
I went to your house , and they told me you were out , but that they expected you home at ten o ’ clock to breakfast .
‘ I have seen his servant , ’ said one , and that applies very well to me. ” “ Well ? ” “ ‘ He must certainly be at Noisy , or be coming there this evening , ’ said the other ; and that applies very well to you. ” “ What else ? ” “ Then the prince said : ‘ Take notice that in all probability he will be disguised as a cavalier ; ’ which seems to me to leave no room for doubt , since you are dressed as a cavalier and not as an officer of musketeers .
Should your hand still be too weak to use this sword , Raoul , so much the better .
A new source of noise and movement was added to the crowd .
You must know I felt so interested in the splendid roan horse , with his elegant little rider , so tastefully dressed in a pink satin jacket and cap , that I could not help praying for their success with as much earnestness as though the half of my fortune were at stake ; and when I saw them outstrip all the others , and come to the winning-post in such gallant style , I actually clapped my hands with joy .
“ Certes , these fellows will all either be imprisoned or hanged , ” thought the terrified D ’ Artagnan , “ and I , no doubt , with them ; for from the moment I have either listened to or heard them , I shall be held as an accomplice .
I am mad for her ! ” Kitty breathed a second sigh .
1.F.5 .
I also have made my preparations this morning. ” “ Oh , heavens !
“ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ we have been here an hour , and our wager is won ; but we will be fair players .
Occasionally , but seldom , he played at whist , and then care was taken to select partners worthy of him—sometimes they were ambassadors , sometimes archbishops , or sometimes a prince , or a president , or some dowager duchess .
We have said that at half-past twelve o ’ clock Madame Danglars had ordered her horses , and had left home in the carriage .
You see that I should be a fool to accept your offer. ’ “ The arguments , and his audacity , perfectly stupefied me .
Five minutes after the new telegram reached the minister , Debray had the horses put to his carriage , and drove to Danglars ’ house .
“ People , in general , ” he said , “ only ask advice not to follow it ; or if they do follow it , it is for the sake of having someone to blame for having given it. ” Porthos arrived a minute after D ’ Artagnan .
This short interval was sufficient to determine D ’ Artagnan on the part he was to take .
On the Eve of Battle .
you knew we were there and yet wished to kill your friend the chevalier ? ” “ I did not recognize the chevalier in armor , sir ! ” said Raoul , blushing ; “ though I might have known him by his skill and coolness in danger. ” “ Thank you for the compliment , my young friend , ” replied Aramis , “ we can see from whom you learned courtesy .
I grasped it in my hand , put out the flame as quickly as I could , lighted my taper in the fire itself , and opened the crumpled paper with inexpressible emotion , recognizing , when I had done so , that these characters had been traced in mysterious and sympathetic ink , only appearing when exposed to the fire ; nearly one-third of the paper had been consumed by the flame .
Answer ! ” “ That is the very truth , ” cried the mercer ; “ but Monsieur does not tell you— ” “ Silence , with respect to me , silence , with respect to my friends ; silence about the queen , above all , or you will ruin everybody without saving yourself !
This creek was sufficiently wide at its mouth , and deep in the centre , to admit of the entrance of a small vessel of the lugger class , which would be perfectly concealed from observation .
Who has consoled me in my sorrow but he ?
“ My officer , ” said the sergeant , “ it is not permitted to stop here. ” “ That prohibition is not for me , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
For a week since he had resolved to die , and during the four days that he had been carrying out his purpose , Edmond had not spoken to the attendant , had not answered him when he inquired what was the matter with him , and turned his face to the wall when he looked too curiously at him ; but now the jailer might hear the noise and put an end to it , and so destroy a ray of something like hope that soothed his last moments .
“ Follow me , ” said Morrel ; “ I will take you to my sister , who is worthy also to be yours .
“ I know that Porthos was in a fair way , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ and as to Aramis to tell you the truth , I have never been seriously uneasy on his account .
The next morning at daybreak , Valentine and Morrel were walking arm-in-arm on the seashore , Valentine relating how Monte Cristo had appeared in her room , explained everything , revealed the crime , and , finally , how he had saved her life by enabling her to simulate death .
“ Help , help , ” he murmured ; “ oh , God !
“ Perfectly , ” said the dragoon .
The air I breathe is the air of liberty !
Then I felt that my vessel was a vain refuge , that trembled and shook before the tempest .
“ The chaplain of the château came to me yesterday to beg for leave of absence , in order to take a trip to Hyères for a week .
The bed , which she had kept from prudence and that they might believe her seriously wounded , burned her like a bed of fire .
All is over !
If there had been no bolt , it would have been impossible for him to pass through the midst of the garrison who held the catacombs of St. Sebastian , encamped round a master whom our readers must have recognized as the famous Luigi Vampa .
What do you think of that exploit , my lord ? ” “ It is magnificent ! ” said Mazarin , thoughtfully .
I have but one word to add , and that is to propose an example to you—not mine , for I myself have never appeared at court , and have only taken part in religious wars as a volunteer ; I speak of Monsieur de Tréville , who was formerly my neighbor , and who had the honor to be , as a child , the play-fellow of our king , Louis XIII. , whom God preserve !
“ Not the least in the world , ” replied Bonacieux .
It was the king speaking on the scaffold .
Now you talk , my dear. ” “ You pardon me ? ” “ We shall see , ” said Porthos , majestically ; and the two separated saying , “ Till this evening. ” “ The devil ! ” thought Porthos , as he walked away , “ it appears I am getting nearer to Monsieur Coquenard ’ s strongbox at last. ” Chapter XXXV .
“ Your pardon , my officer , ” said Athos ; “ but we were ignorant with whom we had to do , and you may see that we were keeping good guard. ” “ Your name ? ” said the officer , who covered a part of his face with his cloak .
I made inquiries , and found that the house in the Champs-Élysées is his own property , and certainly it was very decently kept up .
Let him find it out if he can !
Now , I tell you , you must pass with me through this army across to Scotland , and if you refuse you may choose betwixt two names , which the contempt of all honest men will brand you with—you are either cowards or traitors ! ” The eyes of the Scotch flashed fire ; and , as often happens on such occasions , from shame they passed to effrontery and two heads of clans advanced upon the king .
Grimaud , finding that his master had been arrested , fell back into the ranks near Aramis , without saying a word and as if nothing had happened .
Assassinate the Duke of Buckingham , or cause him to be assassinated—I care very little about that !
For you know Athos .
She was somewhat beautiful , and exquisitely formed—a little fairy-like figure , with large curls falling on her neck , which was rather too long , as Perugino sometimes makes his Virgins , and her eyes dull from fatigue .
By degrees everyone awoke .
I shall , perhaps , have something to say to you. ” And he went out .
“ Go on , while I endeavor to recall circumstances. ” “ And now I am convinced , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that this abduction of the queen ’ s woman is connected with the events of which we are speaking , and perhaps with the presence of Buckingham in Paris. ” “ The Gascon is full of ideas , ” said Porthos , with admiration .
All were still .
It must be the son of Mère Simon who has stolen them ; I saw him strolling about here this morning .
“ Very well , sir , ” said Monte Cristo .
During this time , Dantès , at the opposite side of the table , had been occupied in similarly placing his most honored guests .
Porthos , completely used up by three nights without sleep and a journey of seventy leagues on horseback , retired to his cabin and went to sleep .
“ Ah !
D ’ Artagnan and Planchet had hardly turned the corner when Porthos recognized them .
“ I am a gentleman born , and my blood is warm , as you may have remarked , my dear D ’ Artagnan .
There I will indicate to you the best place and time. ” The two young men bowed and separated , Aramis ascending the street which led to the Luxembourg , while D ’ Artagnan , perceiving the appointed hour was approaching , took the road to the Carmes-Deschaux , saying to himself , “ Decidedly I can ’ t draw back ; but at least , if I am killed , I shall be killed by a Musketeer. ” Chapter V. THE KING ’ S MUSKETEERS AND THE CARDINAL ’ S GUARDS D ’ Artagnan was acquainted with nobody in Paris .
One might have supposed the Bastille appeared before you , and that the gigantic Medusa had converted you into stone .
The Rencontre .
“ Pray excuse me , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ but I never eat Muscatel grapes. ” Mercédès let them fall , and sighed .
Oh , no self-love , Beauchamp .
Porthos , as we have seen , had a character exactly opposite to that of Athos .
One may be very comfortable in a convent ; and as soon as the siege of La Rochelle is terminated , I promise you on my part— ” “ Good , ” cried Athos , “ good !
“ And now , ” said Milady , without appearing to remark the change of the duke ’ s tone toward her— “ now that I have received the instructions of your Eminence as concerns your enemies , Monseigneur will permit me to say a few words to him of mine ? ” “ Have you enemies , then ? ” asked Richelieu .
It must be ; it shall be. ” Seizing a pen , he drew a paper from a secret drawer in his desk , and wrote at the bottom of the document ( which was no other than his will , made since his arrival in Paris ) a sort of codicil , clearly explaining the nature of his death .
“ But , ” asked Morrel , “ will the house of Thomson & French consent ? ” “ Oh , I take everything on myself .
But at least we shall not have to reproach ourselves with anything. ” Milady made no reply , but turning her beautiful head round upon her pillow , she burst into tears , and uttered heartbreaking sobs .
“ If you like , ” replied the latter .
“ Come in , my host. ” “ Now , then , ” asked Albert eagerly , “ have you found the desired cart and oxen ? ” “ Better than that ! ” replied Signor Pastrini , with the air of a man perfectly well satisfied with himself .
you , the Comte de la Fere , on the side of Broussel , Blancmesnil and Viole !
Ah , to have dreamed for ten years of being your husband , Mercédès , and to lose that hope , which was the only stay of my existence ! ” “ At least it was not I who ever encouraged you in that hope , Fernand , ” replied Mercédès ; “ you can not reproach me with the slightest coquetry .
D ’ Artagnan flew to his hole , laid himself down on the floor at full length , and listened .
Thanks to M. Morrel , all the forms were got over ; in a word I was , as I told you , at my marriage feast ; and I should have been married in an hour , and tomorrow I intended to start for Paris , had I not been arrested on this charge which you as well as I now see to be unjust. ” “ Ah , ” said Villefort , “ this seems to me the truth .
Each person ’ s attention was occupied .
I will bless you—I—— ” “ I am dying ! ” cried Mordaunt , “ come to me !
Oh , merciful heavens , was I not accessory to his death by my supine insensibility , by my contempt for him , not remembering , or not willing to remember , that it was for my sake he had become a traitor and a perjurer ?
He had good cause to do so ; the pain I gave him must have been atrocious .
He is also the bearer of a second confidential epistle for his eminence .
“ Nothing , ” she replied with a violent effort .
This world was not then so good as Doctor Pangloss believed it , neither was it so wicked as Dantès thought it , since this man , who had nothing to expect from his comrade but the inheritance of his share of the prize-money , manifested so much sorrow when he saw him fall .
I can not see .
Athos made a sign to the Vicomte de Bragelonne to remain where he was .
Although the cardinal was often tormented by fear , he was more often in need of counsel and information , and he was therefore sufficiently accessible .
“ It must be done , ” said Athos ; then in a lower and more gentle voice , he added .
“ Oh , pardon me , sir ; I can scarcely realize so great a happiness .
Two hours passed thus ; Madame de Saint-Méran was in a feverish sleep , and the notary had arrived .
You say he loves you , Maximilian ; how do you know that he does ?
You know or you don ’ t know , that that is what we ask of you. ” “ Oh !
Monte Cristo looked at her with an indescribable expression of interest and pity .
“ Yes , ” the Gascon answered ; “ Athos !
The woman kneels on a prie-dieu of painted wood and at a short distance from her stands the young girl , leaning against a chair , weeping .
“ What the devil !
He understood that they had described a circle , and were bringing him back to Rome .
They wish for secrecy , since we are to converse in a private room .
I have proof that her Majesty , notwithstanding her excellent heart , has more than once been obliged to abandon to the anger of his Eminence persons who had served her. ” “ Trust me , madame ; the queen may appear to have abandoned those persons , but we must not put faith in appearances .
Danglars , more and more delighted with Major Cavalcanti , had offered him a seat in his carriage .
Bravo , Planchet , you are a lad of your word , and if ever you leave your master , I will promise you a place in my service. ” “ Oh , no , never , ” said Planchet , “ I will never leave Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” At the same time D ’ Artagnan felt that Planchet slipped a note into his hand .
They were surrounded by a crowd of people , who opened a way for us to pass , when suddenly my mother , having looked closely at an object which was attracting their attention , uttered a piercing cry and fell to the ground , pointing as she did so to a head which was placed over the gates , and beneath which were inscribed these words : ‘ _This is the head of Ali Tepelini , Pasha of Yanina._ ’ “ I cried bitterly , and tried to raise my mother from the earth , but she was dead !
Blacas , remain. ” “ Ah , sir , ” said the minister of police to Villefort , as they left the Tuileries , “ you entered by luck ’ s door—your fortune is made. ” “ Will it be long first ? ” muttered Villefort , saluting the minister , whose career was ended , and looking about him for a hackney-coach .
“ Come , ” said Athos , “ here ’ s another good servant .
In fact , aside from a poor widow and a royal orphan who wept in the corner of the Louvre , no one appeared to be aware that Charles I. had ever lived and that he had perished on the scaffold .
“ ‘ There , ’ said he , ‘ demand thy child of Carlini ; he will tell thee what has become of her ; ’ and he returned to his companions .
Bonacieux ’ s .
D ’ Artagnan concealed himself in his closet ; Milady called , undressed , sent away Kitty , and shut the door .
Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms from this work , or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™ .
_Nachrichter_ , as say our neighbors , the Germans. ” And as he bound her while saying these words , Milady uttered two or three savage cries , which produced a strange and melancholy effect in flying away into the night , and losing themselves in the depths of the woods .
Then you were going to Rueil ? ” “ Yes !
Chapter LXVI .
At least , when the woman is rich and the lover is not , that which he can not offer she offers to herself ; and although it is generally with her husband ’ s money that she procures herself this indulgence , the gratitude for it seldom reverts to him .
The tumult was indescribable .
See paragraph 1.C below .
D ’ Artagnan regained the trench , and threw the corpse beside the wounded man , who was as pale as death .
When D ’ Artagnan had finished , he said , “ Hum !
Come , Louise , let us talk of our affairs .
We have experienced the ingratitude of ‘ the great , ’ as you well know. ” “ ’ Tis true , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Before him , on the front seat , lay two pairs of pistols—one in front of Porthos and the other of D ’ Artagnan .
Planchet turned and returned the billet .
You know the rest .
You had the fortitude to regain the house , assisted by your nurse .
Help , reverend sir , —help ! ” This mournful appeal pierced the darkness .
Yes , you are right ; let us go , Porthos , but let us go well armed ; were we not to keep the rendezvous , they would declare we were afraid .
But D ’ Artagnan found in his chamber the personal equipment of a man , complete , except for the sword , arranged along the wall .
Anne of Austria , who , in consequence of the seizure of her letter , expected reproaches , was much astonished the next day to see the king make some attempts at reconciliation with her .
“ Why , ” he said , “ does he enter without first asking for an audience ? ” Anne colored slightly .
Poor Danglars looked so crest-fallen and discomfited that Monte Cristo assumed a pitying air towards him .
At the entrance of the room which led to her boudoir , Madame de Villefort was standing erect , pale , her features contracted , and her eyes glaring horribly .
In three seconds D ’ Artagnan had wounded him three times , exclaiming at each thrust , “ One for Athos , one for Porthos ; and one for Aramis ! ” At the third hit the gentleman fell like a log .
Bassompierre took up his quarters on the north of the city , between Leu and Dompierre ; the Duc d ’ Angoulême on the east , from Dompierre to Perigny ; and M. de Schomberg on the south , from Perigny to Angoutin .
“ Age has warmed , not chilled your blood .
Money !
“ I come from a land where there is not a cloud in the sky. ” “ It is not like this , then , ” said Porthos stretching out his hand to assure himself whether a chill sensation he felt on his cheek was not really caused by a drop of rain .
No .
So many loathsome animals inhabited the prison , that their noise did not , in general , awake him ; but whether abstinence had quickened his faculties , or whether the noise was really louder than usual , Edmond raised his head and listened .
As for Eugénie , she was as strong as a Judith or a Delilah .
“ Presently , presently , ” cried the latter , “ when you haven ’ t your cloak on. ” “ At one o ’ clock , then , behind the Luxembourg. ” “ Very well , at one o ’ clock , then , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , turning the angle of the street .
It is true , however , that it was the shorter and easier part .
“ Impossible !
Guiche summoned one of his grooms , and delivering the prisoner into his charge , with orders to shoot him through the head if he attempted to escape , he leaped from his horse and approached Raoul .
The king and his escort were no longer there .
She then replaced the bonnet , and saw with pleasure , in a little pocket-mirror , that her white complexion and brilliant eyes were alone visible .
Well , he thought of me , when he saw the king was taken , and as they were passing before the house he begged in the king ’ s name that they would stop , as the king was hungry .
He took the papers , and presented himself here as the emissary of the cardinal , and in an hour or two a carriage will come to take me away by the orders of his Eminence. ” “ I understand .
I repent of it ?
“ But who then is Andrea Cavalcanti ? ” asked Danglars in amazement .
Let us take some heed of the welfare of her dear Buckingham .
Your brother-in-law is a barrister ?
“ Yes , ” replied Caderousse , “ little Albert. ” “ But , then , to be able to instruct her child , ” continued the abbé , “ she must have received an education herself .
Danglars instantly descended ; although he did not yet speak Italian , he understood it very well .
As for myself , as soon as I recovered my senses I went to Monsieur the Governor , to whom I related all that had passed , and asked , what I should do with my prisoner .
“ Mademoiselle , ” said Franz , turning towards Valentine , “ unite your efforts with mine to find out the name of the man who made me an orphan at two years of age. ” Valentine remained dumb and motionless .
Imagine my surprise , when , upon returning home , the first object I met on the staircase was the identical jockey in the pink jacket !
M. de Tréville was about to reprehend this breach of the rules of etiquette , when he felt the hand of Athos , who had rallied all his energies to contend against pain , at length overcome by it , fell upon the floor as if he were dead .
Compared with such things , what is the letter you have just read ? —a lover ’ s deception , which the woman who has married that man ought certainly to forgive ; but not so the lover who was to have married her .
He had scarcely entered when he began to agitate his nose and his jaws after the example of his clerks .
Rospigliosi , quite set up with his new dignities , went with a good appetite and his most ingratiating manner .
At the slightest noise he bounded towards the door .
I can believe that it is the dignity of your rank alone which makes you cruel to me ; I can believe that , had you been Madame de Chevreuse , poor Buckingham might have hoped .
On the morrow he received the last touches of Mousqueton ’ s brush for an hour , and took his way toward the Rue aux Ours with the steps of a man who was doubly in favor with fortune .
That would carry you to the end of the world .
Seated with folded arms in a corner of the carriage , he continued to ponder over the singular history he had so lately listened to , and to ask himself an interminable number of questions touching its various circumstances without , however , arriving at a satisfactory reply to any of them .
Thus the attention of many was attracted by this altercation .
Then my dear Monsieur Bonacieux has not suspected me a single instant ? ” “ So far from it , madame , he was too proud of your prudence , and above all , of your love. ” A second smile , almost imperceptible , stole over the rosy lips of the pretty young woman .
In a few minutes Laporte came into the room .
stop ! ” and the sergeant , who began to see that he was the victim of an artifice , was almost in a frenzy of despair .
“ It means , ” replied Mazarin , trying to smile and biting his lips in the attempt , “ that our parts are changed , and that instead of these gentlemen being my prisoners I am theirs ; but , gentlemen , I warn you , unless you kill me , your victory will be of very short duration ; people will come to the rescue. ” “ Ah !
“ But tell me , my dear sister , ” replied he , “ what makes you come to England ? ” “ I come to see you , ” replied Milady , without knowing how much she aggravated by this reply the suspicions to which D ’ Artagnan ’ s letter had given birth in the mind of her brother-in-law , and only desiring to gain the good will of her auditor by a falsehood .
If you received the work electronically , the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund .
In fact , the dream of poor Bazin had always been to serve a churchman ; and he awaited with impatience the moment , always in the future , when Aramis would throw aside the uniform and assume the cassock .
Posterity will find a difficulty in understanding this character , which history explains only by facts and never by reason .
Faith , you are indeed right not to return to it .
THE ANJOU WINE After the most disheartening news of the king ’ s health , a report of his convalescence began to prevail in the camp ; and as he was very anxious to be in person at the siege , it was said that as soon as he could mount a horse he would set forward .
“ However , what had you to say to me ? ” he resumed ; “ let us return to that subject. ” “ With pleasure , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ I must , however , first frankly tell you that you must change your mode of life. ” “ How ? ” “ Go into harness again , gird on your sword , run after adventures , and leave as in old times a little of your fat on the roadside. ” “ Ah !
When I returned she was married .
Read for yourself and judge. ” Porthos took the letter and with a trembling voice read the following words : “ The queen wishes to speak to Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , who must follow the bearer. ” “ Well ! ” exclaimed Porthos ; “ I see nothing in that very extraordinary. ” “ But I see much that is very extraordinary in it , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Bonacieux .
“ Ah , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , really carried away by the passion this woman had the power to kindle in his heart , “ ah , that is because my happiness appears so impossible to me ; and I have such fear that it should fly away from me like a dream that I pant to make a reality of it. ” “ Well , merit this pretended happiness , then ! ” “ I am at your orders , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Have you something to tell me ? ” asked he .
“ Oh , know him ?
“ But could I do with a million ? ” retorted the count .
And Morrel was right , for he returned home crushed by the humiliation of a refusal .
Danglars accompanied him to the door , where he again assured Albert that no motive of personal hatred had influenced him against the Count of Morcerf .
My heart told me what your mouth has just confirmed—that is to say , with what view you have exposed yourself to the dangers of a sea so perilous , or at least so troublesome at this moment—and I sent my cutter to meet you .
This was a man whose face the concierge himself had never seen , for in the winter his chin was buried in one of the large red handkerchiefs worn by gentlemen ’ s coachmen on a cold night , and in the summer he made a point of always blowing his nose just as he approached the door .
“ Some of that at the bottom , near the laths .
If this ship founders , like the others , he is a ruined man. ” “ And has the unfortunate man wife or children ? ” inquired the abbé .
In the midst of all the strange events which had crowded one on the other , an indefinable sentiment of dread had taken possession of Valentine ’ s mind .
I can not cry ; at my age they say that we have no more tears , —still I think that when one is in trouble one should have the power of weeping .
But how did it happen that such a great princess became a slave ? ” “ How was it that Dionysius the Tyrant became a schoolmaster ?
He was moistened before and behind with a greasy liquid which the host recognized as his best olive oil .
40142m “ High walls ? ” “ Not more than eight or ten feet. ” “ That is not prudent , ” said Caderousse .
He walked straight up to him and placed a pistol to his throat .
Meanwhile Danglars , repressing all emotion , advanced to meet the receiver-general .
“ _Pardieu ! _ ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ for my part , I am eating veal garnished with shrimps and vegetables. ” “ And I some lamb chops , ” said Porthos .
Have you ever noticed how much a thing is heightened in value when we obtain possession of it ?
Danglars felt the irony and compressed his lips .
SOUBRETTE AND MISTRESS Chapter XXXIV .
“ I , monsieur , ” replied the abbé with an air of surprise , — “ I want nothing. ” “ You do not understand , ” continued the inspector ; “ I am sent here by government to visit the prison , and hear the requests of the prisoners. ” “ Oh , that is different , ” cried the abbé ; “ and we shall understand each other , I hope. ” “ There , now , ” whispered the governor , “ it is just as I told you. ” “ Monsieur , ” continued the prisoner , “ I am the Abbé Faria , born at Rome .
The story has been told by the Corsican to some priest , who in his turn has repeated it .
Ah , my lord , it is a great happiness that the queen , who always wished you well , had a fancy to send you here , where there ’ s a promenade and a tennis court , good air , and a good table. ” “ In short , ” answered the duke , “ if I comprehend you aright , La Ramee , I am ungrateful for having ever thought of leaving this place ? ” “ Oh !
“ What do I see down there by the wall , in the direction of the Catalans ?
He had sighed deeply , therefore , when accepting the gift of the pony from M. d ’ Artagnan the elder .
“ Adieu , sir , ” said the magistrate , who had risen from his seat ; “ I leave you , bearing a remembrance of you—a remembrance of esteem , which I hope will not be disagreeable to you when you know me better ; for I am not a man to bore my friends , as you will learn .
Coquenard , in that tone which says , “ Take my advice , don ’ t touch them. ” “ Devil take me if I taste one of them ! ” murmured Porthos to himself , and then said aloud , “ Thank you , my cousin , I am no longer hungry. ” There was silence .
We are lost ! ” “ No , ” said Felton ; it is only the sentinel warning me that they are about to change the guard. ” “ Then run to the door , and open it yourself. ” Felton obeyed ; this woman was now his whole thought , his whole soul .
“ In truth , ” said Porthos , “ I understand ; but now—— ” About the middle of the Rue des Petits Champs they were stopped by a second patrol .
Was it a transient vision , or was he face to face with reality ?
Or rather , to observe the chronological order , I and D ’ Artagnan , ” replied Athos .
Dantès cried at the top of his voice to warn them of their danger , but they saw it themselves .
It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life .
I have imparted it to no one but my God , and that in my prayers. ” “ I ask for no more .
All his limbs have become completely paralysed , he has lost his voice also , and we ourselves find much trouble in endeavoring to catch some fragments of his meaning. ” Noirtier cast an appealing look on Valentine , which look was at once so earnest and imperative , that she answered immediately .
“ Alas , no , sir , ” replied Andrea with a sigh , still more remarkable than the former ones .
About five o ’ clock in the evening the island was distinct , and everything on it was plainly perceptible , owing to that clearness of the atmosphere peculiar to the light which the rays of the sun cast at its setting .
The Place Royale .
You will find him quite enthusiastic. ” “ Upon what subject ? ” asked Madame Danglars .
Chapter LXXV .
A delicious zephyr played along the coasts of the Mediterranean , and wafted from shore to shore the sweet perfume of plants , mingled with the fresh smell of the sea .
“ Oh , dear grandmamma , are you worse ? ” exclaimed Valentine , perceiving all these signs of agitation .
It is an algebraic axiom , which makes us proceed from a known to an unknown quantity , and not from an unknown to a known ; but sit down , sir , I beg of you. ” Monte Cristo pointed to a chair , which the procureur was obliged to take the trouble to move forwards himself , while the count merely fell back into his own , on which he had been kneeling when M. Villefort entered .
I only say they cost a load of money to hang , and what is the use of them , I should like to know ? ” “ There used to be a dog let loose in the yard at night , but it has been taken to the house at Auteuil , to that you went to , you know. ” “ Yes. ” “ I was saying to him only yesterday , ‘ You are imprudent , Monsieur Count ; for when you go to Auteuil and take your servants the house is left unprotected. ’ ‘ Well , ’ said he , ‘ what next ? ’ ‘ Well , next , some day you will be robbed. ’ ” “ What did he answer ? ” “ He quietly said , ‘ What do I care if I am ? ’ ” “ Andrea , he has some secretaire with a spring. ” “ How do you know ? ” “ Yes , which catches the thief in a trap and plays a tune .
Although D ’ Artagnan was not of a very sentimental character , the mercer ’ s pretty wife had made a real impression upon his heart .
“ Believe me , ” continued Tréville , “ in enterprises of this kind , in order that one may arrive , four must set out. ” “ Ah , you are right , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but you know Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , and you know if I can dispose of them. ” “ Without confiding to them the secret which I am not willing to know ? ” “ We are sworn , once for all , to implicit confidence and devotedness against all proof .
Why did he not tell them he knew nothing about this affair ? ” “ He took care not to do so , monsieur ; on the contrary , he came up to me and said , ‘ It is your master that needs his liberty at this moment and not I , since he knows everything and I know nothing .
“ No ; you are at your journey ’ s end. ” “ How , monsieur !
A sigh escaped him .
The cavalier entered the second hall , which was guarded by the musketeers and doorkeepers .
The little light in the lodge had long been extinct .
Tomorrow , by twelve o ’ clock , I shall have the order for your exile , signed , _Buckingham_ .
“ Put back that weapon , D ’ Artagnan ! ” said he ; “ this woman must be tried , not assassinated .
“ Courage ! ” cried Raoul , “ courage ! ” “ Too late ! ” murmured the young man , “ too late ! ” The water closed above his head and stifled his voice .
With a thousand pistoles one may face everything .
“ How are you , sir ? ” asked Morrel , with a sickness of heart .
“ Our wine ! ” said Athos , astonished .
Yes , he checks his pace ; he stops at the gate ; he rings. ” Milady sprang out of bed .
These gentlemen , ” added he , pointing to the bodies , “ can not hear us. ” “ But we could throw them into the ditch , ” said Porthos , “ after having assured ourselves they have nothing in their pockets. ” “ Yes , ” said Athos , “ that ’ s Grimaud ’ s business. ” “ Well , then , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ pray let Grimaud search them and throw them over the walls. ” “ Heaven forfend ! ” said Athos ; “ they may serve us. ” “ These bodies serve us ? ” said Porthos .
I beg you to return me that dispatch. ” D ’ Artagnan obeyed , and Mazarin ascertained that the seal was intact .
He had , moreover , sandals bound on his feet by cords .
On their way they met Grimaud .
“ Be it so , then , my father , ” he said , extending his hand to Morrel , “ die in peace , my father ; I will live. ” Morrel was about to cast himself on his knees before his son , but Maximilian caught him in his arms , and those two noble hearts were pressed against each other for a moment .
“ What ? —this one , too ? ” he exclaimed .
Although about forty-four or forty-five years old , she might have passed for thirty-five .
At the door he found the two men and the spare horse which they held .
“ Silence , D ’ Artagnan ! ” said Athos .
I wish that this event , which on the day it is known will completely change the aspect of affairs , should be accomplished without the knowledge of any others but yourself , myself , and a third person. ” “ And who is this third person ? ” “ Monsieur le Prince. ” “ He has come , then , as they told me ? ” “ Last evening. ” “ And you have seen him ? ” “ He has just left me. ” “ And will he aid this project ? ” “ The plan is his own. ” “ And Paris ? ” “ He will starve it out and force it to surrender at discretion. ” “ The plan is not wanting in grandeur ; I see but one impediment. ” “ What is it ? ” “ Impossibility. ” “ A senseless word .
Even on the night of the prince ’ s return , some citizens , bolder than the rest , such as the sheriffs , captains and the quartermaster , went from house to house among their friends , saying : “ Why do we not take the king and place him in the Hotel de Ville ?
“ ‘ We announce , ’ he read , in the same tone with which he would have read a newspaper , ‘ that today , the 23rd of February , will be executed Andrea Rondolo , guilty of murder on the person of the respected and venerated Don César Torlini , canon of the church of St. John Lateran , and Peppino , called Rocca Priori , convicted of complicity with the detestable bandit Luigi Vampa , and the men of his band. ’ “ Hum !
“ Am I not to know to whom to present it ? ” “ You will know when you reach London ; at London you may tear off the outer envelope. ” “ And what are my instructions ? ” “ To obey in every particular the man to whom this letter is addressed .
What then ? ” “ How much do you require for my ransom ? ” “ Merely the 5,000,000 you have about you. ” Danglars felt a dreadful spasm dart through his heart .
As for myself , I neither have , nor desire to have , a mistress , following in that respect the very judicious example of Athos , who has none any more than I have. ” “ But what the devil !
His mind was torn by doubt , grief , and despair .
You will conduct us yourself , then , to that door ? ” “ Very willingly , if it be necessary to reassure you , ” answered the minister , and Mazarin , who was delighted to get off so cheaply , led the way , in high spirits , to the corridor and opened the door .
“ Between six and seven o ’ clock the road of Chaillot is quite deserted ; you might as well go and ride in the forest of Bondy. ” “ But suppose we all go , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ what the devil !
“ Go and call out your regiment , ” said he ; “ I can foresee that we shall have need of it directly. ” Winter turned his horse and the two friends rode on .
Thus illumined , Aramis read the following epistle : “ My dear D ’ Herblay , —I learned from D ’ Artagnan who has embraced me on the part of the Comte de la Fere and yourself , that you are setting out on a journey which may perhaps last two or three months ; as I know that you do not like to ask money of your friends I offer you some of my own accord .
The terrible office he had held for twenty-five years had succeeded in making him more or less than man .
“ Do you think anything else was to be expected of them ? ” asked Comminges , who , putting together what Mazarin had said of his prisoners and what the Comte de la Fere had said , began to feel a degree of uneasiness .
“ Do you consider the last twelve months to have been wasted ? ” asked the abbé .
Albert listened , trembling now with hope , then with anger , and then again with shame , for from Beauchamp ’ s confidence he knew his father was guilty , and he asked himself how , since he was guilty , he could prove his innocence .
And yet , instead of the silence and the solemnity demanded by the occasion , laughter and jests arose from the crowd .
Tell me what it says. ” “ Count , will you allow me to send Baptistin to inquire after someone you know ? ” “ I am at your service , and still more my servants. ” “ Oh , I can not live if she is not better. ” “ Shall I ring for Baptistin ? ” “ No , I will go and speak to him myself. ” Morrel went out , called Baptistin , and whispered a few words to him .
The porter knew him , and let him pass , only calling to him : “ In his study , Monsieur Procureur—in his study ! ” Villefort pushed , or rather forced , the door open .
“ Have a care , ” cried Porthos to his opponent ; “ I ’ ve still two pistols charged. ” “ The more reason you should fire the first ! ” cried his foe .
I had often seen one placed at the end of a road on a hillock , and in the light of the sun its black arms , bending in every direction , always reminded me of the claws of an immense beetle , and I assure you it was never without emotion that I gazed on it , for I could not help thinking how wonderful it was that these various signs should be made to cleave the air with such precision as to convey to the distance of three hundred leagues the ideas and wishes of a man sitting at a table at one end of the line to another man similarly placed at the opposite extremity , and all this effected by a simple act of volition on the part of the sender of the message .
It was long since he had any reason for his morning ’ s inspiration , but he always slept all night long .
The young girl looked at Morrel .
“ Yes , that is true , ” said she , “ and I will confess to your Majesty that my husband— ” “ Your husband has none .
I have chosen the drawing-room , sir , as our place of meeting , in order to avoid the disagreeable impressions and influences of a banker ’ s study .
He drew back terrified .
But enough of this—here is my card , take it to your master. ” “ Madame will await my return ? ” “ Yes ; go. ” The concierge closed the door , leaving Madame Danglars in the street .
‘ Vasiliki , ’ said he to my mother , trembling perceptibly , ‘ the instant approaches which will decide everything .
Ah , believe me , Edmond , as I told you , I too have suffered much ; I repeat , it is melancholy to pass one ’ s life without having one joy to recall , without preserving a single hope ; but that proves that all is not yet over .
“ Pooh ! ” replied Porthos , “ I am what I am. ” They rode on for an hour , till the horses were covered with foam and dust .
I am a very capricious being , and I should tell you that sometimes when I rise , or after my dinner , or in the middle of the night , I resolve on starting for some particular point , and away I go. ” The count rang , and a footman appeared .
“ To the Palais Royal , ” he called out .
He was standing , his arms folded , near Rita , who was still insensible .
“ You forget , my dear , you forget that these gentlemen are not initiated into my family affairs like yourself .
To be obliging and polite does not necessarily make a man a coward .
I recollect now , ’ said the officer , in a jeering tone ; ‘ well , what do you want with me ? ’ ‘ I want you to spare time to take a walk with me. ’ ‘ Tomorrow morning , if you like , with the greatest pleasure. ’ ‘ No , not tomorrow morning , if you please , but immediately. ’ ‘ If you absolutely insist. ’ ‘ I do insist upon it. ’ ‘ Come , then .
The curtain rose , and the attention of Franz was attracted by the actors ; and his eyes turned from the box containing the Greek girl and her strange companion to watch the business of the stage .
“ No , I have good luck , that is all .
What do you say to it , Aramis ? ” “ Why , the idea of taking quarters with Senor Perez seems to me very reasonable , and for my part I agree to it .
Rely on me to procure you the other ; I will do my best. ” “ Ah , M. Morrel , ” exclaimed the young seaman , with tears in his eyes , and grasping the owner ’ s hand , “ M .
My father advised me to stoop to nobody but the king , the cardinal , and yourself—whom he considered the first three personages in France. ” D ’ Artagnan added M. de Tréville to the others , as may be perceived ; but he thought this addition would do no harm .
“ But , ” continued Aramis , “ Bazin is a well trained servant , and seeing that I was not alone he discreetly retired .
“ You !
Within this mansion you are absolute mistress of your actions , and may go abroad or remain in your apartments as may seem most agreeable to you .
One might by the fearful swelling of the veins of his forehead and the contraction of the muscles round the eye , trace the terrible conflict which was going on between the living energetic mind and the inanimate and helpless body .
“ My dear D ’ Artagnan , ” said he , “ if you please , we will join our friends ; as I am rich , we will today begin to dine together again , expecting that you will be rich in your turn. ” “ My faith ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , with great pleasure .
In this list there were three conditions which displeased Mazarin and he offered the prince ten thousand crowns to renounce them. ” “ Ah , ha , ha ! ” laughed the three friends , “ not a bad bargain ; and there was no fear of being taken at his word ; what did the prince do then ? ” “ The prince immediately sent fifty thousand francs to Mazarin , begging him never to write to him again , and offered twenty thousand francs more , on condition that he would never speak to him .
“ Go , go , I implore you , and return hereafter !
I was for twenty years Cardinal Spada ’ s secretary ; I was arrested , why , I know not , toward the beginning of the year 1811 ; since then I have demanded my liberty from the Italian and French government. ” “ Why from the French government ? ” “ Because I was arrested at Piombino , and I presume that , like Milan and Florence , Piombino has become the capital of some French department. ” “ Ah , ” said the inspector , “ you have not the latest news from Italy ? ” “ My information dates from the day on which I was arrested , ” returned the Abbé Faria ; “ and as the emperor had created the kingdom of Rome for his infant son , I presume that he has realized the dream of Machiavelli and Cæsar Borgia , which was to make Italy a united kingdom. ” “ Monsieur , ” returned the inspector , “ Providence has changed this gigantic plan you advocate so warmly. ” “ It is the only means of rendering Italy strong , happy , and independent. ” “ Very possibly ; only I am not come to discuss politics , but to inquire if you have anything to ask or to complain of. ” “ The food is the same as in other prisons , —that is , very bad ; the lodging is very unhealthful , but , on the whole , passable for a dungeon ; but it is not that which I wish to speak of , but a secret I have to reveal of the greatest importance. ” “ We are coming to the point , ” whispered the governor .
The stranger met Julie on the stairs ; she pretended to be descending , but in reality she was waiting for him .
“ Have you any chamber on the ground floor where these gentlemen can wait near a good fire ? ” said the cardinal .
Ah , if you had tasted my life , you would not desire any other , and would never return to the world unless you had some great project to accomplish there. ” “ Revenge , for instance ! ” observed Franz .
“ All this looks suspicious. ” “ They said a quarter of an hour .
The judges were looking for a new outbreak from the benches .
For the story ?
“ What is this name of Monte Cristo ? ” inquired the countess , when the servant had taken away the last vase of flowers , “ is it a family name , or the name of the estate , or a simple title ? ” “ I believe , mother , it is merely a title .
It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life .
YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION , THE TRADEMARK OWNER , AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL , DIRECT , INDIRECT , CONSEQUENTIAL , PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE .
Chapter XXXVIII .
Then he came back to the point where , perhaps , he ought to have begun , and that was to knock at the door against which the stranger had leaned ; but this proved useless—for though he knocked ten or twelve times in succession , no one answered , and some of the neighbors , who put their noses out of their windows or were brought to their doors by the noise , had assured him that that house , all the openings of which were tightly closed , had not been inhabited for six months .
“ My lord , have you any commands ? ” asked Bernouin .
Haydée took the porcelain cup in her little slender fingers and conveyed it to her mouth with all the innocent artlessness of a child when eating or drinking something which it likes .
“ It is much better both for you and for me to stop where we are , ” answered the wounded man .
Had it been possible to save you , I should have considered it another proof of God ’ s mercy , and I would again have endeavored to restore you , I swear by my father ’ s tomb. ” “ By your father ’ s tomb ! ” said Caderousse , supported by a supernatural power , and half-raising himself to see more distinctly the man who had just taken the oath which all men hold sacred ; “ who , then , are you ? ” The count had watched the approach of death .
You will be very kind to me , will you not , Morrel , to make me forget my sorrow in leaving her thus ?
A deep silence reigned for a long time in the boat after the fearful scene described .
“ What ?
The king motioned him to accompany them .
“ Except your signature and your partner ’ s , M. Morrel. ” “ And why should he not have this ? ” asked the owner ; “ he is young , it is true , but he seems to me a thorough seaman , and of full experience. ” A cloud passed over Danglars ’ brow .
At the foot of the stairs , Valentine found Barrois awaiting her .
Should we have the same presentiments if our existences did not touch at the heart ?
Anne had never at the Louvre had so large a court ; but this crowd represented chiefly the second class of nobility , while the Prince de Conti , the Duc de Beaufort and the coadjutor assembled around them the first nobility of France .
MONSIEUR BONACIEUX There was in all this , as may have been observed , one personage concerned , of whom , notwithstanding his precarious position , we have appeared to take but very little notice .
The window yielded .
“ Now , then , do you wish for anything else ? ” said the patron .
D ’ Artagnan looked much disconcerted .
You must make some reformation in that quarter. ” “ You have opened my eyes , ” said the Italian gravely ; “ I will show the gentlemen the door. ” Monte Cristo resumed the perusal of the letter : “ ‘ And who only needs one thing more to make him happy. ’ ” “ Yes , indeed but one ! ” said the major with a sigh .
Deuce take it—all the worse for me ! ” “ How ? ” “ There is no doubt but that one of the chief accomplishments of a courtier is to know when to forget. ” “ But you , Guitant , are not a courtier .
He was dressed in a common gray blouse and velvet cap , but his carefully arranged hair , beard and moustache , all of the richest and glossiest black , ill accorded with his plebeian attire .
Their horses were fed , but not unsaddled ; the grooms supped , for it was already late , and their two masters , impatient to return , appointed a place of meeting with them on the jetty and desired them on no account to exchange a word with any one .
“ That ’ s it , ” said the tutor .
At the same time couriers started in every direction over England and Europe to announce that Charles Stuart was the prisoner of Oliver Cromwell .
Milady was all attention .
There was one lying on the table ; he endeavored to introduce it into the mouth of the patient , who , in the midst of his convulsions , was making vain attempts to vomit ; but the jaws were so clenched that the pen could not pass them .
Porthos saw nothing in all this but a love meeting , given by a lady to a cavalier , or by a cavalier to a lady , which had been disturbed by the presence of D ’ Artagnan and his yellow horse .
He swam on still , and already the terrible château had disappeared in the darkness .
And this conviction restored his strength .
Bonacieux , who waited for him , and who , with the same precautions and the same good luck , conducted him out of the Louvre .
“ Oh , you love her still , ” said Kitty , who had not taken her eyes off the young man ’ s countenance for an instant .
Come , speak ; avow freely that you accuse him ! ” “ No , sire , but I say that he deceives himself .
Monte Cristo leaned against a tree , and with that scrutinizing glance which was so rarely deceived , looked up and down the avenue , examined the passers-by , and carefully looked down the neighboring streets , to see that no one was concealed .
“ What is that ? ” he inquired .
Like benefactors in romances , I should have left you without seeing you again , but that would have been a virtue beyond my strength , because I am a weak and vain man , fond of the tender , kind , and thankful glances of my fellow-creatures .
Ask day after to-morrow to have a pie supplied you by the new confectioner opposite the castle , and who is no other than Noirmont , your former maitre d ’ hotel .
“ What , ” said he , “ is it you , my dear Franz , whose devotion and friendship are thus displayed ? ” “ No , not I , ” replied Franz , “ but our neighbor , the Count of Monte Cristo. ” “ Oh , my dear count , ” said Albert gayly , arranging his cravat and wristbands , “ you are really most kind , and I hope you will consider me as under eternal obligations to you , in the first place for the carriage , and in the next for this visit , ” and he put out his hand to the count , who shuddered as he gave his own , but who nevertheless did give it .
The lowest or the least known of them , as soon as he assumed the uniform of the company , was as sure of his aid and support as if he had been his own brother .
Ah !
If you succeed I do not say that you will save a king ; no , in presence of the scaffold as I am , royalty , I assure you , is a very small affair ; but you will save a husband to his wife , a father to his children .
“ Because she had been branded , ” continued D ’ Artagnan .
If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder , your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder .
Danglars turned to the left ; another man on horseback was galloping on that side .
I have not forgotten all I owe thee .
Chapter XVII .
It was Noirtier the lemonade was intended for—it is Noirtier , logically speaking , who drank it .
I have a despatch from the prince to his eminence. ” “ You must still deliver it , ” said Athos .
Athos smiled .
“ Sir , ” said Albert , at first with a tremulous voice , but which gradually became firmer , “ I reproached you with exposing the conduct of M. de Morcerf in Epirus , for guilty as I knew he was , I thought you had no right to punish him ; but I have since learned that you had that right .
“ Must I always be the same ? ” said he , “ and shall I never succeed in overcoming the old leaven ?
The king was winning ; and as he was very avaricious , he was in an excellent humor .
“ And I , ” said Athos , taking some small change from his pocket , “ I— ” “ You ?
He had just passed by the pavilion in which ten years later Louis XIV .
He dwelt with considerable force and energy on the almost magical hospitality he had received from the count , and the magnificence of his entertainment in the grotto of the _Thousand and One Nights_ .
“ The man was Caderousse—he was pale and his shirt was all bloody .
“ Poor man , he is a worthy creature. ” He left the porter to ponder on these words , not knowing which most to admire , the master or the servant .
The servant quitted the apartment with evident signs of astonishment .
I am a criminal , as it appears .
Look ! ” and D ’ Artagnan , obliging Athos to look in the direction he pointed , showed him the body of Mordaunt floating on its back , which , sometimes submerged , sometimes rising , seemed still to pursue the four friends with looks of insult and mortal hatred .
Bertuccio alone turned pale whenever Benedetto ’ s name was mentioned in his presence , but there was no reason why anyone should notice his doing so .
Madame de Villefort wiped his forehead , pressed her lips upon it , and sent him back with the ball in one hand and some bonbons in the other .
He examined the bullets with which Monte Cristo performed this dexterous feat , and saw that they were no larger than buckshot .
As he gazed at him Mazarin shook his head slightly , as much as to say , “ This is a man who does not appear to me fit for much. ” After a pause , which appeared an age to Rochefort , Mazarin took from a bundle of papers a letter , and showing it to the count , he said : “ I find here a letter in which you sue for liberty , Monsieur de Rochefort .
There is everything in a Jesuit convent. ” “ Then you would have killed Monsieur de Marsillac if he had come alone to attack you , instead of at the head of twenty men ? ” “ Undoubtedly , ” said Aramis , “ and even at the head of his twenty men , if I could have drawn without being recognized. ” “ God pardon me ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself , “ I believe he has become more Gascon than I am ! ” Then aloud : “ Well , my dear Aramis , do you ask me why I came to seek you ? ” “ No , I have not asked you that , ” said Aramis , with his subtle manner ; “ but I have expected you to tell me. ” “ Well , I sought you for the single purpose of offering you a chance to kill Monsieur de Marsillac whenever you please , prince though he is. ” “ Hold on !
Now , then , let us breakfast. ” “ With what an air he says all this , ” muttered Beauchamp ; “ decidedly he is a great man. ” “ A great man in his own country , ” added Debray .
He then said , “ It is time to start ; the signature was indeed fixed to take place at nine o ’ clock , but perhaps Valentine will not wait for that. ” Consequently , Morrel , having left the Rue Meslay at half-past eight by his timepiece , entered the clover-field while the clock of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule was striking eight .
Unfortunately , he is more nimble than his master ; so that for the sake of his master , he puts us all under his feet , and as he thinks we might refuse what he asked for , he takes all he wants without asking at all. ” “ The fact is , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I have always observed a great degree of intelligence and devotedness in Mousqueton. ” “ That is possible , monsieur ; but suppose I should happen to be brought in contact , even four times a year , with such intelligence and devotedness—why , I should be a ruined man ! ” “ No , for Porthos will pay you. ” “ Hum ! ” said the host , in a doubtful tone .
30297m At the time the Countess of Morcerf returned to the rooms , after giving her orders , many guests were arriving , more attracted by the charming hospitality of the countess than by the distinguished position of the count ; for , owing to the good taste of Mercédès , one was sure of finding some devices at her entertainment worthy of describing , or even copying in case of need .
“ Here are ten thousand more francs , ” he said , “ with the fifteen thousand already in your pocket , they will make twenty-five thousand .
“ Good , ” muttered Mazarin , sitting down , “ we shall soon see something startling. ” The queen ’ s eyes followed the retreating figures and when the last had closed the door she turned away .
Do you think it is worth while ? ” said Villefort .
“ I love you ; you permit me to tell you that I do—that is already more happiness than I dared to hope. ” “ Silence ! ” said Mme .
“ What was the subject of my thoughts from the time consciousness returned to me ?
Shall I tell you what you ought to do , Morcerf ? ” “ Command me , madame. ” “ Well , then , you should go and bring your Count of Monte Cristo to us. ” “ What for ? ” asked Eugénie .
I have seen that , mother ; I know that from the gulf in which their enemies have plunged them they have risen with so much vigor and glory that in their turn they have ruled their former conquerors , and have punished them .
Debray rose , smiling , and was about to contradict the baroness upon this latter point , when the door opened suddenly .
Remember , also , Villefort , that we have pledged ourselves to his majesty for your fealty and strict loyalty , and that at our recommendation the king consented to forget the past , as I do ” ( and here she extended to him her hand ) — “ as I now do at your entreaty .
When they spoke , although Teresa listened timidly and with downcast eyes to the conversation of her cavalier , as Luigi could read in the ardent looks of the good-looking young man that his language was that of praise , it seemed as if the whole world was turning round with him , and all the voices of hell were whispering in his ears ideas of murder and assassination .
But as to what had been done by Porthos and D ’ Artagnan afterward they were as ignorant as all the inhabitants of the chateau .
I could , therefore , expect a higher rank , and who knows what might have happened had the elder branch remained on the throne ?
His face , a little elongated , had gained in calm dignity what it had lost in feverish excitement .
The Island of Monte Cristo Chapter 24 .
Noirtier , seated in his chair , and listening to every sound , was watching the door ; he saw Valentine , and his eye brightened .
Scarcely had the two Frenchmen touched the ground when a door opened and the voice of the valet-de-chambre called out : “ Make ready ! ” At the same moment the guardhouse was opened and a voice called out : “ La Bruyere and Du Barthois !
His recital finished , the abbé reflected long and earnestly .
They then perceived two men conversing in the obscurity .
At length the boat touched the shore , but without effort , without shock , as lips touch lips ; and he entered the grotto amidst continued strains of most delicious melody .
“ For a man not connected with newspapers , here is the pendant to the famous sea-serpent of the _Constitutionnel_. ” “ Wild eyes , the iris of which contracts or dilates at pleasure , ” said Debray ; “ facial angle strongly developed , magnificent forehead , livid complexion , black beard , sharp and white teeth , politeness unexceptionable. ” “ Just so , Lucien , ” returned Morcerf ; “ you have described him feature for feature .
The garden was long and narrow ; a stretch of smooth turf extended down the middle , and at the corners were clumps of trees with thick and massy foliage , that made a background for the shrubs and flowers .
“ For all this , ” continued Milady , “ I should long ago have revenged myself on him if , and I don ’ t know why , the cardinal had not requested me to conciliate him. ” “ Oh , yes ; but Madame has not conciliated that little woman he was so fond of. ” “ What , the mercer ’ s wife of the Rue des Fossoyeurs ?
They were passed by a sort of courier , covered with dust , the bearer of a letter from the duke to the cardinal , giving testimony to the valor of D ’ Artagnan and Porthos .
When he was within twenty paces of it , he heard a noise of people and the carriage stopped .
This evening , especially , Aramis was melancholy and thoughtful .
Luigi slowly relinquished Teresa ’ s arm , which he had held beneath his own , and Teresa , accompanied by her elegant cavalier , took her appointed place with much agitation in the aristocratic quadrille .
At this very moment the court is making overtures to me ; hitherto I have repulsed them ; but since such men as you assure me that I am wrong in doing so , I ’ ve a good mind to follow your advice and to accept a proposition made to me by the Duc de Chatillon just now. ” “ Accept it , my lord , accept it , ” said Aramis .
“ When my morning and evening meals are brought , ” thought he , “ I will cast them out of the window , and they will think that I have eaten them. ” He kept his word ; twice a day he cast out , through the barred aperture , the provisions his jailer brought him—at first gayly , then with deliberation , and at last with regret .
excuse my weakness !
“ You will say , then , to my good and faithful Parisians , ” continued Anne , with a smile , the expression of which did not deceive D ’ Artagnan , “ that you have seen the king in bed , asleep , and the queen also ready to retire. ” “ I shall tell them , madame , and those who accompany me will say the same thing ; but—— ” “ But what ? ” asked Anne of Austria .
I was then obliged to come back again .
Chapter VII .
“ Yes. ” “ I know it because yesterday Monsieur de Wardes , in a saloon where I was , showed a ring which he said he had received from you. ” “ Wretch ! ” cried Milady .
Chapter III .
These three others fenced against him with their agile swords .
“ I saw the lamp ascend , and leave me in darkness ; then I heard the well-known creaking of the door although I had heard that door open but twice .
“ Well ? ” asked Athos , when he had closed the letter .
He accustomed himself to speaking to the new jailer , although the latter was , if possible , more taciturn than the old one ; but still , to speak to a man , even though mute , was something .
Mousqueton collected a store of crusts ; Bazin , who had always been inclined to devotion , never quit the churches ; Planchet watched the flight of flies ; and Grimaud , whom the general distress could not induce to break the silence imposed by his master , heaved sighs enough to soften the stones .
“ Sire , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ will your majesty permit me to ask you a question ? ” Louis XIV .
“ You arrive in good time , dear D ’ Artagnan , ” said Aramis , “ and by taking part in our discussion may assist us with your intelligence .
We are about to leave this evening , ” continued Mazarin .
M. de Villefort had the reputation of being the least curious and the least wearisome man in France .
You are saying to yourself : ‘ Fifteen days , twenty days ?
I struggled , then , with all my strength , and doubtless opposed , weak as I was , a long resistance , for I heard him cry out , ‘ These miserable Puritans !
He turned round as if to give an order to Cahusac and Houdinière .
Almost before the key had turned in the lock , and before the departing steps of the jailer had died away in the long corridor he had to traverse , Dantès , whose restless anxiety concerning his friend left him no desire to touch the food brought him , hurried back to the abbé ’ s chamber , and raising the stone by pressing his head against it , was soon beside the sick man ’ s couch .
During the whole five years in which the Duc de Beaufort had been in prison not a day had passed in which the cardinal had not felt a secret dread of his escape .
She was now connected by bonds of a political nature with the Prince de Marsillac , the eldest son of the old Duc de Rochefoucauld , whom she was trying to inspire with an enmity toward the Duc de Condé , her brother-in-law , whom she now hated mortally .
In proof of this we have signed this paper to establish the truth of the facts , lest the moment should arrive when either of the actors in this terrible scene should be accused of premeditated murder or of infringement of the laws of honor .
Additional terms will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work .
I warn you , however , his services will cost you something .
She then tried to seize the sword with her hands ; but D ’ Artagnan kept it free from her grasp , and presenting the point , sometimes at her eyes , sometimes at her breast , compelled her to glide behind the bedstead , while he aimed at making his retreat by the door which led to Kitty ’ s apartment .
From that moment he grew very guarded .
Well ? ” “ Having , then , a keeper like La Ramee , I should try also to have introduced to him by some friend or other a man who would be devoted to me , who would assist me in my flight. ” “ Come , come , ” said La Ramee , “ that ’ s not a bad idea. ” “ Capital , isn ’ t it ?
Sure of being killed by Athos , it may easily be understood that the young man was not very uneasy about Porthos .
Meanwhile , Lord de Winter , the deputies , the leaders of the expedition , the officers of Buckingham ’ s household , had all made their way into the chamber .
“ I forgive you .
“ Ah , ” said the Marquise de Saint-Méran , a woman with a stern , forbidding eye , though still noble and distinguished in appearance , despite her fifty years— “ ah , these revolutionists , who have driven us from those very possessions they afterwards purchased for a mere trifle during the Reign of Terror , would be compelled to own , were they here , that all true devotion was on our side , since we were content to follow the fortunes of a falling monarch , while they , on the contrary , made their fortune by worshipping the rising sun ; yes , yes , they could not help admitting that the king , for whom we sacrificed rank , wealth , and station was truly our ‘ Louis the well-beloved , ’ while their wretched usurper has been , and ever will be , to them their evil genius , their ‘ Napoleon the accursed. ’ Am I not right , Villefort ? ” “ I beg your pardon , madame .
I am the friend of the great cardinal ! ” “ Of the great cardinal ! ” “ Perhaps you would contest his right to that title , madame ? ” “ I would contest nothing ; but I tell you that the favor of a minister is ephemeral , and that a man must be mad to attach himself to a minister .
“ Three months passed and still she wept—no news of Edmond , no news of Fernand , no companionship save that of an old man who was dying with despair .
His two companions were already on horseback .
“ I go , ” said he ; “ I go at once. ” “ How , you will go ! ” said Mme .
To love you cry , ‘ Fie !
But it is not the less true that that letter— ” And Planchet retired , shaking his head with an air of doubt , which the liberality of D ’ Artagnan had not entirely effaced .
“ Yes , especially if you will show me the poor abbé ’ s room. ” “ Ah !
How pale you are ! ” “ The abominable creature , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan .
“ We are about to ascertain , sire , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , as he rapidly left the room .
It was my forgetfulness then ; pardon me. ” “ Now , ” asked Athos , “ what are we to do with ourselves till evening ?
“ Oh , sir ! ” exclaimed he , “ thank Heaven I have arrived in time .
If so , I will give you a letter of introduction to him. ’ “ ‘ Oh , father , ’ I exclaimed , ‘ you are very good. ’ “ ‘ But you must swear solemnly that I shall never have reason to repent my recommendation. ’ “ I extended my hand , and was about to pledge myself by any promise he would dictate , but he stopped me .
to speak to you about me ? ” “ Of what else do you imagine he would speak to me ?
Let us strive , I beseech you , —let us strive to be cheerful. ” “ Yes , let us strive , for you ought to live , and to be happy , Albert. ” “ And so our division is made , mother , ” said the young man , affecting ease of mind .
Athos fenced with as much calmness and method as if he had been practicing in a fencing school .
The three young men bowed to each other courteously , if not affably .
The young woman in the street replied by a single tap , and the shutter was opened a little way .
he has been sent by Cromwell to Mazarin , and the queen guessed rightly ; we have been forestalled .
Oh , how noble did the grand vizier my father look at that moment , in the midst of the flying bullets , his scimitar in his hand , and his face blackened with the powder of his enemies !
my dear Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan , sighing , “ we are unfortunately no longer in those times in which princes would care to assassinate me .
Now , in the event of the king ’ s death , his successor inherits a crown , —when the employee dies , the supernumerary steps into his shoes , and receives his salary of twelve thousand livres .
“ Now , retire to your chambers , ” said Athos , “ and leave me to act .
The other sailor had already seated himself on the port side and was ready to row .
“ Oh , my God , my God , ” cried Mme .
However , sire , if I might advise , your majesty will interrogate the person of whom I spoke to you , and I will urge your majesty to do him this honor. ” “ Most willingly , duke ; under your auspices I will receive any person you please , but you must not expect me to be too confiding .
1.E .
You see I give you a wide range .
You have been spoken of in a promising quarter and you will soon , I hope , have news that will be agreeable to you. ” Grimaud saluted in his politest manner and withdrew , as was his custom on the entrance of his superior .
Now , nothing of the kind has happened. ” “ What then ? ” asked Hermine , trembling violently .
But never mind , that will do capitally. ” D ’ Artagnan opened the door and called out to a waiter to desire Madeleine to come upstairs .
“ I acknowledge I would have given anything to find it out. ” “ It would be very easy if you much wished it ? ” “ How so ? ” “ Probably you have some correspondent in Greece ? ” “ I should think so. ” “ At Yanina ? ” “ Everywhere. ” “ Well , write to your correspondent in Yanina , and ask him what part was played by a Frenchman named Fernand Mondego in the catastrophe of Ali Tepelini. ” “ You are right , ” exclaimed Danglars , rising quickly , “ I will write today. ” “ Do so. ” “ I will. ” 30259m “ And if you should hear of anything very scandalous—— ” “ I will communicate it to you. ” “ You will oblige me. ” Danglars rushed out of the room , and made but one leap into his _coupé_ .
Are people to be run against without warning ?
But supplicants for favor know how to accommodate the expression of their features , and the daughter of Henry IV .
I ought to have known you better by this time ; but we are all possessed of a malignant spirit , which bids us doubt. ” “ Humph ! ” said Porthos .
“ Sir , ” said the queen to him , thinking he was the leader of the band , “ you wished to see the king and therefore I determined to show him to you myself .
Milady tried to raise and carry her , but could not do it .
“ _On y va_ , ” ( coming ) exclaimed Peppino , who from frequenting the house of Signor Pastrini understood French perfectly in all its idioms .
“ You would love me , then , if you were not queen !
Perhaps the fellow had been bribed by the notary. ” “ It is probable , ” stammered out Villefort , trying to smile ; “ but I can assure you that I had nothing to do with any such proceeding .
We will arm our four lackeys with pistols and musketoons ; if they send an army out against us , we will give battle , and the survivor , as D ’ Artagnan says , will carry the letter. ” “ Well said , ” cried Aramis ; “ you don ’ t often speak , Athos , but when you do speak , it is like St. John of the Golden Mouth .
With this consoling idea , I leave you , madame , and most prudent wife , without any conscientious reproach for abandoning you ; you have friends left , and the ashes I have already mentioned , and above all the liberty I hasten to restore to you .
“ Oh !
I see her now , as on her knees at my feet , with her head thrown back , she begged for life .
“ Return as soon as you can , Florentin .
It was evening ; I had thrown the body into the river and those words which my remorse repeats to me are those which I in my pride pronounced .
“ The man who lives to see shall see. ” And slipping through the aperture , he alighted in the court .
“ Let me see ; have I not heard talk of some strange adventure with bandits or thieves hid in ruins , and of his having had a miraculous escape ?
“ Ah , sir , ” replied Caderousse , “ we can not console those who will not be consoled , and he was one of these ; besides , I know not why , but he seemed to dislike seeing me .
“ It is over , ” Aramis had said .
Chapter 80 .
Almost instantly a female head was put out at the window , with two fingers placed upon her mouth , either to enjoin silence or to send him a kiss .
As to the servant , she had run away at the moment of her master ’ s arrest .
“ Is it heaven that opens before me ? ” thought the dying man ; “ that angel resembles the one I have lost. ” Monte Cristo pointed out Morrel to the young woman , who advanced towards him with clasped hands and a smile upon her lips .
“ For you , monsieur , ” said Planchet , presenting the billet to the young man .
Is being in love conspiring ?
On the 1st , Morrel returned ; he was awaited by his family with extreme anxiety , for from this journey to Paris they hoped great things .
Look at that wall—without a single window—which tells you fine things about Mazarin ’ s gratitude ! ” “ Yes , ” replied De Comminges , “ more especially if it could reveal how Monsieur d ’ Artagnan for this last week has been anathematizing him. ” “ Poor D ’ Artagnan ’ ” said Athos , with the charming melancholy that was one of the traits of his character , “ so brave , so good , so terrible to the enemies of those he loves .
“ Now for the wager !
The silence , however , could not last forever .
“ Then mine is the boat you want , sir .
“ Yes , in so many words ; and it must be so , for the abbé knows correctly the amount of all the largest fortunes in Europe. ” “ Be it half a million , then ; but on my word of honor , I had no idea that it was so much. ” “ Because you are robbed by your steward .
In two days , and by using up two or three horses ( that ’ s nothing ; I have plenty of money ) , I am at Béthune .
Would you like to know how matters have progressed ?
Has he a lady with him ? ” “ Jesus !
This was the name which he gave him in former days , in their moments of tender intimacy .
Both , as this double precaution indicated , had an interest in not being recognized .
I will lay a wager that ’ twas that Saint Christopher , Porthos , who performed this feat !
My mother gave it him , and as she did so , looked whiter than the marble against which she leaned .
I must have been mad to allow myself to be carried away so , ” says she , gazing into the glass , which reflects back to her eyes the burning glance by which she appears to interrogate herself .
That your mother and M. de Villefort are both coming to this dinner .
He recognized Mordaunt , who with bare sword was marshalling the musketeers behind the king and opposite the benches .
The woman must have once been handsome , but traces of sorrow have aged her .
Then he looked anxiously at Valentine .
“ No , ” said the captain , “ I make but one bargain ; and I have agreed with this young man that the other five hundred shall not be due to me till we arrive at Boulogne. ” “ And shall we arrive there ? ” “ Safe and sound , as true as my name ’ s Jack Butler. ” “ Well , ” said Milady , “ if you keep your word , instead of five hundred , I will give you a thousand pistoles. ” “ Hurrah for you , then , my beautiful lady , ” cried the captain ; “ and may God often send me such passengers as your Ladyship ! ” “ Meanwhile , ” said Felton , “ convey me to the little bay of— ; you know it was agreed you should put in there. ” The captain replied by ordering the necessary maneuvers , and toward seven o ’ clock in the morning the little vessel cast anchor in the bay that had been named .
“ Never mind that foolish girl , Villefort , ” said the marquise .
Have I not told you so , gentlemen ?
“ M .
Oh , monsieur , you can write as much as you like ; you may become equal to Monsieur de Voiture and Monsieur de Benserade .
Oh , no !
The count pretends I have not him to thank ; —so be it—I will erect an altar _Deo ignoto_. ” “ Listen , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I have had little to do with it , for I am at variance both with the father-in-law and the young man ; there is only Mademoiselle Eugénie , who appears but little charmed with the thoughts of matrimony , and who , seeing how little I was disposed to persuade her to renounce her dear liberty , retains any affection for me. ” “ And do you say this wedding is at hand ? ” “ Oh , yes , in spite of all I could say .
“ Several days elapsed , and they neither saw nor heard of Cucumetto .
It was D ’ Artagnan , who was waiting for him .
This other Musketeer formed a perfect contrast to his interrogator , who had just designated him by the name of Aramis .
“ Well ? ” said Porthos .
But Valentine was so weak that this recital scarcely produced the same effect it would have done had she been in her usual state of health .
They arrived at the appointed spot .
As he entered the chamber of his friend , Dantès cast around one eager and searching glance in quest of the expected marvels , but nothing more than common met his view .
The old man looked at her for an instant with an expression of the deepest tenderness , then , turning towards the notary , he significantly winked his eye in token of dissent .
It was agreed that the three millions should be intrusted to Danglars to invest ; some persons had warned the young man of the circumstances of his future father-in-law , who had of late sustained repeated losses ; but with sublime disinterestedness and confidence the young man refused to listen , or to express a single doubt to the baron .
D ’ Artagnan dismissed Planchet , and requested his visitor to be seated .
But since then everything has changed in and about me ; I am accustomed to brave difficulties , and , in the conflict to crush those who , by their own free will , or by chance , voluntarily or involuntarily , interfere with me in my career .
In a quarter of an hour the porter returned with a post-boy and horses , which were harnessed , and put in the post-chaise in a minute , while the porter fastened the portmanteau on with the assistance of a cord and strap .
But Dantès was so honorable and true in his own nature , that he believed everybody ’ s professions of friendship .
“ Dear me ! ” said the young woman , endeavoring to read her husband ’ s inmost thoughts , while a smile passed over her countenance which froze the impassibility of Villefort ; “ what is the matter ? ” “ Madame , where do you keep the poison you generally use ? ” said the magistrate , without any introduction , placing himself between his wife and the door .
This woman has come back again into England for the purpose of conspiring against my life .
You know how much he loves me , my mother .
Chapter XXII .
“ If all the prisoners took it into their heads to travel a hundred leagues , and their guardians consented to accompany them , they would have a capital chance of escaping. ” “ The scheme is well known , ” said the inspector ; “ and the abbé ’ s plan has not even the merit of originality. ” Then turning to Faria , “ I inquired if you are well fed ? ” said he .
“ Alas , ” he exclaimed , “ how can I restore the happiness I have taken away from these poor innocent creatures ?
Our readers already know how he was recognized by D ’ Artagnan , and how that recognition by inspiring fear in the four Musketeers had given fresh activity to their journey .
“ And his name ? ” said he .
The man was M. de Villefort ; I fully believed that when he went out in the night he would be forced to traverse the whole of the garden alone. ” 20291m “ And , ” asked the count , “ did you ever know the name of this woman ? ” “ No , excellency , ” returned Bertuccio ; “ you will see that I had no time to learn it. ” “ Go on. ” “ That evening , ” continued Bertuccio , “ I could have killed the procureur , but as I was not sufficiently acquainted with the neighborhood , I was fearful of not killing him on the spot , and that if his cries were overheard I might be taken ; so I put it off until the next occasion , and in order that nothing should escape me , I took a chamber looking into the street bordered by the wall of the garden .
But his piercing eyes could by no means penetrate the sombre depths of Cromwell ’ s .
Buckingham threw himself at her feet , and before the queen could prevent him , kissed the hem of her robe .
The host gave Franz time to recover from his surprise , and , moreover , returned look for look , not even taking his eyes off him .
Château-Renaud and Morcerf exchanged a third look of still increasing wonder .
It was not uncommon for Richelieu and Louis XIII .
“ Long live the coadjutor ! ” cried the crowd .
“ Now let me behold the curious pens with which you have written your work. ” “ Look ! ” said Faria , showing to the young man a slender stick about six inches long , and much resembling the size of the handle of a fine painting-brush , to the end of which was tied , by a piece of thread , one of those cartilages of which the abbé had before spoken to Dantès ; it was pointed , and divided at the nib like an ordinary pen .
And at this moment , perhaps , Felton is paying with his head for the crime of this fury ! ” A shudder crept through the judges at the revelation of these unknown crimes .
“ Go , then , animal , ” said the duke ; “ but remember , I only allow you half an hour. ” “ May I promise your custom to the successor of Father Marteau , my lord ? ” “ Yes , if he does not put mushrooms in his pies ; thou knowest that mushrooms from the wood of Vincennes are fatal to my family. ” La Ramee went out , but in five minutes one of the officers of the guard entered in compliance with the strict orders of the cardinal that the prisoner should never be left alone a moment .
“ Well , M. de Villefort , how would you advise me to act ? ” asked he .
However , we shall see .
“ _Peste ! _ Matters are going all right. ” “ Should you know those doors again ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Do you know the numbers ? ” “ Yes. ” “ What are they ? ” “ No .
Where did you place it ?
It was there that my father , ruined by the revolution , and M. Danglars , who never had possessed any patrimony , both laid the foundations of their different fortunes. ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo “ I think M. Danglars mentioned that in a visit which I paid him ; and , ” continued he , casting a side-glance at Lucien , who was turning over the leaves of an album , “ Mademoiselle Eugénie is pretty—I think I remember that to be her name. ” “ Very pretty , or rather , very beautiful , ” replied Albert , “ but of that style of beauty which I do not appreciate ; I am an ungrateful fellow. ” “ You speak as if you were already her husband. ” “ Ah , ” returned Albert , in his turn looking around to see what Lucien was doing .
Was this love a simple political affair , or was it naturally one of those profound passions which Anne of Austria inspired in those who approached her ?
As for the count , he just touched the dishes ; he seemed to fulfil the duties of a host by sitting down with his guests , and awaited their departure to be served with some strange or more delicate food .
It is urgent that I should have this money without delay .
Bonacieux .
The same night , such a man of regularity was the patron of _La Jeune Amélie_ , the profits were divided , and each man had a hundred Tuscan livres , or about eighty francs .
“ What is become of her ?
My God !
And , then , to be here so young !
I have an idea , which I will explain by and by , of making an exception to the usual form of accusation .
He left there three men .
Often he awoke in the night , suddenly , dreaming that he had been robbed of Monsieur de Beaufort .
At present I no longer think of it , and yet I must tell you that we are beginning to occupy ourselves greatly with these things under our popular government. ” “ Well , then , your government would do well to choose from the past something better than the things that I have noticed on your monuments , and which have no heraldic meaning whatever .
Planchet took place behind his master , and kept at a distance of ten paces from him .
My first care was to run to the door ; he had left the key in it , taking the simple precaution of turning it twice in the lock .
“ To you alone , then , may I confide my sorrows and my hopes ? ” The paralytic motioned “ Yes. ” Valentine took Maximilian ’ s hand .
I understood that I had nothing to fear , that I should neither be seen nor heard , so I decided upon descending to the garden .
Do you grasp that ? ” said Athos , shrugging his shoulders ; “ the daughter of Henry IV .
“ No , ” he muttered , “ the doubt I felt was but the commencement of forgetfulness ; but here the wound reopens , and the heart again thirsts for vengeance .
It is well understood that he did not breathe a word about the other .
“ Well , ” said the young man , “ let us demand hospitality of these smugglers and bandits .
D ’ Artagnan was assigned to it and made his preparations to depart .
“ ‘ What do you think of this ? ’ he asked in a low voice .
The minister made a slight sign with his head , whereupon the queen said to Madame Beauvais : “ It is time for the king to go to bed ; call Laporte. ” The queen had several times already told her son that he ought to go to bed , and several times Louis had coaxingly insisted on staying where he was ; but now he made no reply , but turned pale and bit his lips with anger .
But what are you about there ?
Never mind , I ’ ll fix that all right .
“ May I venture to inquire the reason of this unexpected visit ? ” said M. Morrel , addressing the magistrate , whom he evidently knew ; “ there is doubtless some mistake easily explained. ” “ If it be so , ” replied the magistrate , “ rely upon every reparation being made ; meanwhile , I am the bearer of an order of arrest , and although I most reluctantly perform the task assigned me , it must , nevertheless , be fulfilled .
I eat everywhere , and of everything , only I eat but little ; and today , that you reproach me with my want of appetite , is my day of appetite , for I have not eaten since yesterday morning. ” “ What , ” cried all the guests , “ you have not eaten for four-and-twenty hours ? ” “ No , ” replied the count ; “ I was forced to go out of my road to obtain some information near Nîmes , so that I was somewhat late , and therefore I did not choose to stop. ” “ And you ate in your carriage ? ” asked Morcerf .
Chapter XLIII .
Mordaunt , pale and trembling with anger , rushed from the hall sword in hand , followed by six pikemen , pushing , inquiring and panting in the crowd ; and then , having found nothing , returned .
I understand , Bertuccio has been sent by my protector. ” The keeper spoke for a moment with an official , then opened the iron gates and conducted Andrea to a room on the first floor .
Stop there , madame , for this can not last .
“ I fancied myself despised , betrayed .
The space was cleared , the two lamps placed on Cromwell ’ s desk , in order that the combatants might have as much light as possible ; and the swords crossed .
After the death of Barrois my suspicions were directed towards an angel , —those suspicions which , even when there is no crime , are always alive in my heart ; but after the death of Valentine , there has been no doubt in my mind , madame , and not only in mine , but in those of others ; thus your crime , known by two persons , suspected by many , will soon become public , and , as I told you just now , you no longer speak to the husband , but to the judge. ” 50165m The young woman hid her face in her hands .
Never commit such an imprudence as to try to escape , except in your dreams. ” “ And you are right , my dear La Ramee , ” said the duke , wiping away the sweat that stood on his brow , wide awake though he was ; “ after this I will think of nothing but eating and drinking. ” “ Hush ! ” said La Ramee ; and one by one he sent away the guards , on various pretexts .
Morrel shuddered as he thought of the conversation of the doctor and M. de Villefort , and he thought he could see through the sheet the extended hands , the stiff neck , and the purple lips .
We shall meet again in better days. ” “ And whenever we find each other , in whatever place it may be , ” said Kitty , “ you will find me loving you as I love you today. ” “ Dicers ’ oaths ! ” said Athos , while D ’ Artagnan went to conduct Kitty downstairs .
Moreover , something had been said of a marriage with Mazarin ’ s niece .
“ And then he was older than any of us , ” added D ’ Artagnan .
Nevertheless , whether the cough had been answered by a similar signal which had fixed the irresolution of the nocturnal seeker , or whether without this aid she saw that she had arrived at the end of her journey , she resolutely drew near to Aramis ’ s shutter , and tapped , at three equal intervals , with her bent finger .
I remember well that the slaves , convinced of the precarious tenure on which they held their lives , passed whole days and nights in praying , crying , and groaning .
At four o ’ clock D ’ Artagnan recommenced his journey .
Chapter XLVII .
That can be managed. ” “ I shall be baron ! ” explained Porthos , stepping forward .
Ah !
You must look out for yourself. ” “ What have I to fear , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ as long as I shall have the luck to enjoy the favor of their Majesties ? ” “ Everything , believe me .
Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1 .
The queen turned sharply round , for there could be no deception in the expression of that voice ; it was a friend who spoke thus .
“ He took her for the queen ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
In fact , at half-past eight in the evening the grand salon , the gallery adjoining , and the three other drawing-rooms on the same floor , were filled with a perfumed crowd , who sympathized but little in the event , but who all participated in that love of being present wherever there is anything fresh to be seen .
Ah , for the sake of our child , let me live ! ” 50167m “ No , no , no , I tell you ; one day , if I allow you to live , you will perhaps kill him , as you have the others ! ” “ I ? —I kill my boy ? ” cried the distracted mother , rushing toward Villefort ; “ I kill my son ?
Duty before everything .
You have permitted me to converse with you from time to time , Valentine , but forbidden my ever following you in your walks or elsewhere—have I not obeyed ?
It was a very near thing , but he is not dead. ” As he said this , D ’ Artagnan gave a glance at Parry , who was standing in front of the king , to show him that the news was meant for him .
“ Oh , it is not yet fixed ! ” murmured Fernand .
He entered third , and Aramis , who shut the gate after him , last .
“ Hear the end .
What are the wishes of his eminence ? ” “ He wishes to have you in his service. ” “ And who spoke to him of me ? ” “ Rochefort—you remember him ? ” “ Yes , pardieu !
“ I am lost , ” murmured the queen , “ lost ! —for the cardinal knows all , and it is he who urges on the king , who as yet knows nothing but will soon know everything .
When Franz had once again set foot on shore , he forgot , for the moment at least , the events which had just passed , while he finished his affairs of pleasure at Florence , and then thought of nothing but how he should rejoin his companion , who was awaiting him at Rome .
Dantès had not been deceived—he had reached the first of the two islands , which was , in fact , Tiboulen .
La Ramee laughed also and the guards laughed in chorus ; Grimaud , however , did not even smile .
Two minutes later the thunder of a horse ’ s hoofs was heard upon the road ; it was Grimaud , on his way to Paris .
in five minutes it will be too late ! ” Mme .
His delicate mustache marked a perfectly straight line upon his upper lip ; he appeared to dread to lower his hands lest their veins should swell , and he pinched the tips of his ears from time to time to preserve their delicate pink transparency .
The officer followed her .
The horses , which were more kindly used than on the previous day , stopped at Arras at four o ’ clock in the evening .
Do you know the Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ You mean Monsieur Zaccone , I presume ? ” “ Zaccone ? —is not his name Monte Cristo ? ” “ Monte Cristo is the name of an estate , or , rather , of a rock , and not a family name. ” “ Well , be it so—let us not dispute about words ; and since M. de Monte Cristo and M. Zaccone are the same—— ” “ Absolutely the same. ” “ Let us speak of M. Zaccone. ” “ Agreed. ” “ I asked you if you knew him ? ” “ Extremely well. ” “ Who is he ? ” “ The son of a rich shipbuilder in Malta. ” “ I know that is the report ; but , as you are aware , the police does not content itself with vague reports. ” “ However , ” replied the abbé , with an affable smile , “ when that report is in accordance with the truth , everybody must believe it , the police as well as all the rest. ” “ Are you sure of what you assert ? ” “ What do you mean by that question ? ” “ Understand , sir , I do not in the least suspect your veracity ; I ask if you are certain of it ? ” “ I knew his father , M. Zaccone. ” “ Ah , indeed ? ” “ And when a child I often played with the son in the timber-yards. ” “ But whence does he derive the title of count ? ” “ You are aware that may be bought. ” “ In Italy ? ” “ Everywhere. ” “ And his immense riches , whence does he procure them ? ” “ They may not be so very great. ” “ How much do you suppose he possesses ? ” “ From one hundred and fifty to two hundred thousand livres per annum. ” “ That is reasonable , ” said the visitor ; “ I have heard he had three or four millions. ” “ Two hundred thousand per annum would make four millions of capital. ” “ But I was told he had four millions per annum. ” “ That is not probable. ” “ Do you know this Island of Monte Cristo ? ” “ Certainly , everyone who has come from Palermo , Naples , or Rome to France by sea must know it , since he has passed close to it and must have seen it. ” “ I am told it is a delightful place ? ” “ It is a rock. ” “ And why has the count bought a rock ? ” “ For the sake of being a count .
“ It is right , ” said Athos ; “ he has served your majesty longer than we have. ” The king overheard these words and turned around with tears in his eyes .
They were his friends and not mine .
You are in prison , then ? ” Rochefort trembled in every limb at this question .
Now , I entertain a ridiculous partiality for my head , it seems to suit my shoulders so correctly .
Morrel was only thirty-one , Barrois was sixty years of age ; Morrel was deeply in love , and Barrois was dying with heat and exertion .
You received me very coldly .
Whilst they spurred their steeds they held their pistols ready also .
50153m “ Everything , ” he said , “ proves me to be under the protection of some powerful person , —this sudden fortune , the facility with which I have overcome all obstacles , an unexpected family and an illustrious name awarded to me , gold showered down upon me , and the most splendid alliances about to be entered into .
He soon became calmer and more happy , for only now did he begin to realize his felicity .
The artist who could have depicted the expression of these two countenances would certainly have made of them a beautiful picture .
The queen and De Winter continued to converse for some time in low voices , in order that the young princess should not overhear them ; but the precaution was needless : she was in deep converse with her own thoughts .
Albert recognized the bearer .
“ At times the state into which I had fallen appeared so strange that I believed myself dreaming .
Villefort is no longer at Marseilles ; he is now at Toulouse. ” “ I am no longer surprised at my detention , ” murmured Dantès , “ since my only protector is removed. ” “ Had M. de Villefort any cause of personal dislike to you ? ” “ None ; on the contrary , he was very kind to me. ” “ I can , then , rely on the notes he has left concerning you ? ” “ Entirely. ” “ That is well ; wait patiently , then. ” Dantès fell on his knees , and prayed earnestly .
In the antechamber , upon long circular benches , reposed the elect ; that is to say , those who were called .
3 , and while warming his feet and chatting about the last races at Chantilly , he waited until they announced his room to be ready .
As I rode by the count ’ s house I perceived a light in one of the windows , and fancied I saw the shadow of his figure moving behind the curtain .
“ Inflexible man ! ” she murmured .
“ Oh , sir ! ” exclaimed Raoul , recognizing the young man as having seen him in the Rue Cocatrix , “ spare him !
I have not yet had time to see him again .
Bonacieux moved by a double sentiment—love and curiosity .
the poor girl was so sad that she did not even notice Milady ’ s condescension .
How Mousqueton had a Narrow Escape of being eaten .
Every man has a devouring passion in his heart , as every fruit has its worm ; that of the telegraph man was horticulture .
Has anything particular happened in the neighborhood ?
tell me what I must do this time ; are there any fresh instructions ?
Danglars thought _dentro la testa_ meant , “ Put in your head ! ” He was making rapid progress in Italian .
The servant entered just as he had finished .
“ Can my influence with them be of any service to you ? ” “ Oh , count , you could assist me perhaps in researches which have been , up to the present , fruitless .
D ’ Artagnan , that man of iron , who seemed to be made of nerve and muscle only , had struck him with admiration .
“ Valentine , the time has arrived when you must answer me .
The very circumstances which inflict on you , as a principal in the tragic scene enacted here , such painful emotions , are to me , on the contrary , a source of something like contentment , and serve but to enhance the value of this dwelling in my estimation .
“ Why , you see , he did not expect to see Dantès return so suddenly—he thought he was dead , perhaps ; or perchance faithless !
Has not his Majesty just left you , and has he not himself asked you to prepare for this visit ? ” “ Search , then , monsieur !
Pray put no construction on my words I do not mean they should convey , and give them no undue weight. ” “ No. ” said Albert , “ the engagement is broken off. ” “ Well , ” said Beauchamp .
Then his head was seen passing at the back of the boxes , and the count knew that the approaching storm was intended to fall on him .
The very dogs that wander houseless and homeless in the streets find some pitying hand to cast them a mouthful of bread ; and that a man , a Christian , should be allowed to perish of hunger in the midst of other men who call themselves Christians , is too horrible for belief .
Danglars ’ Signature The next morning dawned dull and cloudy .
For , notwithstanding all my sorrows and my tortures , I show you today a face which the happiness of revenge makes young again—a face you must often have seen in your dreams since your marriage with Mercédès , my betrothed ! ” 40268m The general , with his head thrown back , hands extended , gaze fixed , looked silently at this dreadful apparition ; then seeking the wall to support him , he glided along close to it until he reached the door , through which he went out backwards , uttering this single mournful , lamentable , distressing cry : “ Edmond Dantès ! ” Then , with sighs which were unlike any human sound , he dragged himself to the door , reeled across the courtyard , and falling into the arms of his valet , he said in a voice scarcely intelligible , — “ Home , home. ” The fresh air and the shame he felt at having exposed himself before his servants , partly recalled his senses , but the ride was short , and as he drew near his house all his wretchedness revived .
A ray of joy passed across M. de Boville ’ s countenance , yet he made an effort at self-control , and said : “ Sir , I ought to tell you that , in all probability , you will not realize six per cent of this sum. ” “ That ’ s no affair of mine , ” replied the Englishman , “ that is the affair of the house of Thomson & French , in whose name I act .
Only one minute , Mr. Felton , and you will have saved my honor ! ” “ To kill yourself ? ” cried Felton , with terror , forgetting to withdraw his hands from the hands of the prisoner , “ to kill yourself ? ” “ I have told , sir , ” murmured Milady , lowering her voice , and allowing herself to sink overpowered to the ground ; “ I have told my secret !
But these 200 francs ? ” “ Here they are , and 200 more besides .
“ Ah !
As to fortune , he had made—he , humble as he was—an enemy of the cardinal ; that is to say , of a man before whom trembled the greatest men of the kingdom , beginning with the king .
The count followed her with his eyes .
No doubt the host knew what illustrious visitor was expected , and had consequently sent intruders out of the way .
I ’ ve remarked that your Puritans revel in that color. ” “ But can you find your man ? ” said Aramis to Athos .
I imagined your dead body buried at the foot of some gloomy tower , or cast to the bottom of a pit by hateful jailers , and I wept !
I have extricated you from misery , Felton ; I have caused you to be named lieutenant ; I once saved your life , you know on what occasion .
Milady recognized his step .
He remained in his cell , and this visit only increased the belief in his insanity .
Mme .
I hope you will be satisfied with its contents .
The stranger thus presenting himself was probably a person who , like Franz , preferred the enjoyment of solitude and his own thoughts to the frivolous gabble of the guides .
“ Indeed , count , ” said Madame Danglars , “ I am ashamed to own it , but all your frightful stories have so upset me , that I must beg you to let me sit down ; ” and she fell into a chair .
Rochefort alone was dissatisfied with the termination of affairs .
I think only that I have known you not a whole year .
During this short time Valentine must have held her breath , or moved in some slight degree , for the woman , disturbed , stopped and leaned over the bed , in order the better to ascertain whether Valentine slept : it was Madame de Villefort .
Three of the four horses had already arrived .
Those must have been ten weary years. ” Dantès took some louis from his pocket , and gave them to the man who had twice unconsciously pitied him .
Bonacieux was going ; that was to follow her .
do you hear ? ” “ Well , well , ” rejoined the leader , “ there ’ s no doubt ’ tis a Gascon who is speaking , and therefore not the man we are looking for .
“ As soon as possible. ” “ I am at your command , sir ; shall we return together ? ” “ If not unpleasant to you. ” “ On the contrary , I shall feel much pleasure. ” Thus , the future father and son-in-law stepped into the same carriage , and Morrel , seeing them pass , became uneasy .
Milady felt that she stood in need of all her strength .
“ Thank you , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Comminges , showing half of his body through the window of the broken vehicle , “ thanks , my young friend ; your name—that I may mention it to the queen. ” Raoul was about to reply when D ’ Artagnan bent down to his ear .
Her pretty face arrested my attention ; I approached and recognized that little Kitty whom our friend Aramis had placed with her .
Estafania , give up the keys of my drawers and my desks. ” For form ’ s sake the chancellor paid a visit to the pieces of furniture named ; but he well knew that it was not in a piece of furniture that the queen would place the important letter she had written that day .
“ What does he want with me ? ” said Monte Cristo .
I knew you were gloomy , and always brooding over some old history of the vendetta ; and I overlooked that in Italy , because in Italy those things are thought nothing of .
I am rich enough to know whatever I desire to know , and I can promise you I am not wanting in curiosity .
I find that I have not been mistaken , and I thank you that there is still one man in France of whom may be said , without disappointment , what I have said of you. ” “ That ’ s well said , ” cried the king , who had heard all these compliments through the open door ; “ only tell him , Tréville , since he wishes to be considered your friend , that I also wish to be one of his , but he neglects me ; that it is nearly three years since I have seen him , and that I never do see him unless I send for him .
Except this , he has no pretension to nobility , and calls himself a chance count , although the general opinion at Rome is that the count is a man of very high distinction. ” “ His manners are admirable , ” said the countess , “ at least , as far as I could judge in the few minutes he remained here. ” “ They are perfect mother , so perfect , that they surpass by far all I have known in the leading aristocracy of the three proudest nobilities of Europe—the English , the Spanish , and the German. ” The countess paused a moment ; then , after a slight hesitation , she resumed .
I was obliged to sound a retreat toward the Rue Tiquetonne ; I was pursued and took refuge in the house next to this , where I have been concealed between two mattresses .
“ What a wrist you have , reverend sir ! ” said Caderousse , stroking his arm , all bruised by the fleshy pincers which had held it ; “ what a wrist ! ” “ Silence !
Then it was the will of God that it should be so and this it is which makes it all so awful , ” continued Grimaud .
“ You think , then , that you can help me more efficaciously than your brothers ? ” said Gondy .
At times there passed before me clouds which pressed my brow , which veiled my eyes ; this was delirium .
D ’ Artagnan was pacing to and fro like a caged tiger ; with dilated eyes , growling as he paced along by the bars of a window looking upon the yard of servant ’ s offices .
Cross them ; that ’ s right ! ” Felton tied her two wrists together with his handkerchief , and then with a cord over the handkerchief .
He saw a corpse at his feet .
“ Well , but he is a charming young man , according to my ideas. ” “ He is , which makes me believe that it is only an excuse of M. Noirtier to prevent his granddaughter marrying ; old men are always so selfish in their affection , ” said Madame de Villefort .
He hastened to descend into the street , with a frightful beating at his heart ; he wished to see if he could find other traces of violence .
“ Alas !
Supposing that after having eaten the leather they eat the soles , I can not see much that is left unless they eat one another. ” “ Poor fools ! ” said Athos , emptying a glass of excellent Bordeaux wine which , without having at that period the reputation it now enjoys , merited it no less , “ poor fools !
“ He replied—he replied , that the death was not a natural one , and must be attributed ” — “ To what ? ” “ To poison. ” “ Indeed ! ” said Monte Cristo with a slight cough which in moments of extreme emotion helped him to disguise a blush , or his pallor , or the intense interest with which he listened ; “ indeed , Maximilian , did you hear that ? ” “ Yes , my dear count , I heard it ; and the doctor added that if another death occurred in a similar way he must appeal to justice. ” Monte Cristo listened , or appeared to do so , with the greatest calmness .
Monte Cristo , left alone , took three or four steps onwards , and murmured : “ Here , beneath this plane-tree , must have been where the infant ’ s grave was dug .
Years of suffering , in my opinion , count double , and I have suffered for twenty years. ” “ Ah , yes , I understand , ” said Mazarin ; “ want of fortune , perhaps .
A shorter clerk came behind the first , a taller clerk behind the second , a stripling of a dozen years rising behind the third .
He turned to brush away a tear , and then , summoning up all his firmness , drew his daughter toward him , recommending her to be pious and resigned .
The least that can be expected is that you will be arrested. ” “ What !
The Night Chapter 90 .
“ I have the honor to be , with respect , etc. , “ Marechal de Grammont. ” At the moment mention occurred of his having rendered a service to the count , Raoul could not help turning his glance toward the young princess , and then he saw in her eyes an expression of infinite gratitude to the young man ; he no longer doubted that the daughter of King Charles I. loved his friend .
Andrea Cavalcanti Chapter 57 .
“ Your excellency , ” said the captain , “ that was the land signal , will you answer yourself ? ” “ What signal ? ” The captain pointed towards the island , up the side of which ascended a volume of smoke , increasing as it rose .
The name of the French officer who had been sent to Constantinople resounded on all sides amongst our Palikares ; it was evident that he brought the answer of the emperor , and that it was favorable. ” “ And do you not remember the Frenchman ’ s name ? ” said Morcerf , quite ready to aid the memory of the narrator .
But the inheritance consisted in this only , a scrap of paper on which Spada had written : — ‘ I bequeath to my beloved nephew my coffers , my books , and , amongst others , my breviary with the gold corners , which I beg he will preserve in remembrance of his affectionate uncle. ’ “ The heirs sought everywhere , admired the breviary , laid hands on the furniture , and were greatly astonished that Spada , the rich man , was really the most miserable of uncles—no treasures—unless they were those of science , contained in the library and laboratories .
There is no occasion to tell you , my lord , that the minister knew for a fact that these ornaments had sailed away with the ambassador , who was far away , beyond seas .
Tomorrow this order will be sent to the Duke of Buckingham .
The presence of my daughter and myself in France is already irksome to him ; much more so would be that of the king .
Then my brother determined to substitute cunning for force .
“ One of your guards , my prince ; a man of talent and merit , whom you will like , as I and Monsieur de Chavigny do , I am sure. ” “ Why does he take my comb ? ” “ Why do you take my lord ’ s comb ? ” asked La Ramee .
Porthos rested his chin on his hands , placed his elbows on the table and looked at D ’ Artagnan with an expression of confidence which imparted to that colossus an admirable appearance of good-fellowship .
Dantès would have shouted , but he knew that the wind would drown his voice .
In the meanwhile , he looked upon Athos as an Achilles , Porthos as an Ajax , and Aramis as a Joseph .
“ A great age , you mean , Monsieur Porthos .
“ The duke ! ” Porthos and D ’ Artagnan roared out both at once .
“ I imagined it must be , ” said Morrel .
If they had discovered Milady ’ s retreat , three were to remain on guard ; the fourth was to return to Béthune in order to inform Athos and serve as a guide to the four friends .
“ My letter of recommendation ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ my letter of recommendation !
He reflected that this coalition of four young , brave , enterprising , and active men ought to have some other object than swaggering walks , fencing lessons , and practical jokes , more or less witty .
I had no such contempt for men before. ” “ Was I not a good ambassador in France ? ” “ Yes , for Mazarin has granted what I desire. ” “ Have I not always fought for your glory and interests ? ” “ Too ardently , perhaps ; it is what I have just reproached you for .
It was about eleven o ’ clock at night .
“ These rascals will adjourn when they find that they are not in sufficient force , ” said the Comte de la Fere .
It is incredible !
D ’ Artagnan imagined that on arriving in town the duke would slacken his pace , but it was not so .
“ Yes , I understand , grandfather , ” said the young girl .
No , you do not know me ; I have done all in my power to oppose it. ” “ Ah , I understand , ” said Beauchamp , “ on our friend Albert ’ s account. ” “ On my account ? ” said the young man ; “ oh , no , indeed , the count will do me the justice to assert that I have , on the contrary , always entreated him to break off my engagement , and happily it is ended .
Valentine had not seen him .
Besides , he had another strange fancy , which was always to believe that the causes of his sadness created the gaiety of others .
Monsieur de St. Merri , you begin. ” “ My lord , I have in my parish a man who might be of the greatest use to you. ” “ Who and what is this man ? ” “ A shopkeeper in the Rue des Lombards , who has great influence upon the commerce of his quarter. ” “ What is his name ? ” “ He is named Planchet , who himself also caused a rising about six weeks ago ; but as he was searched for after this emeute he disappeared. ” “ And can you find him ? ” “ I hope so .
He was supplied with bread of a finer , whiter quality than the usual prison fare , and even regaled each Sunday with a small quantity of wine .
Athos had a noble heart , and made , therefore , but a poor courtier .
“ Here , ” replied the gendarmes .
Indeed , when placed beside M. de Tréville , the elegant and noble courtier , Athos in his most cheerful days might advantageously sustain a comparison .
“ Out , even to me ? ” “ I know how happy my master always is to receive the vicomte , ” said Baptistin ; “ and I should therefore never think of including him in any general order. ” “ You are right ; and now I wish to see him on an affair of great importance .
“ Now , madame , ” continued Debray , first opening the closet , then the chest ; — “ now , madame , here are 800 notes of 1,000 francs each , resembling , as you see , a large book bound in iron ; to this I add a certificate in the funds of 25,000 francs ; then , for the odd cash , making I think about 110,000 francs , here is a check upon my banker , who , not being M. Danglars , will pay you the amount , you may rest assured. ” Madame Danglars mechanically took the check , the bond , and the heap of bank-notes .
“ What , ” said the count , “ do you still regret anything in the world , and yet die ? ” “ Oh , I entreat you , ” exclaimed Morrel in a low voice , “ do not speak another word , count ; do not prolong my punishment. ” The count fancied that he was yielding , and this belief revived the horrible doubt that had overwhelmed him at the Château d ’ If .
I did not think two sapphires of such a fine water existed .
God would not permit such a crime ! ” “ Water , water ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
he is scarcely five feet high. ” “ Bravo bravo ! ” cried a tall man with an enormous mustache and a long rapier , “ bravo , fair Paulet , it is high time to put little Voiture in his right place .
During the last fifteen days she had experienced so many and such various emotions that if her frame of iron was still capable of supporting fatigue , her mind required repose .
From every street and every corner drove carriages filled with clowns , harlequins , dominoes , mummers , pantomimists , Transteverins , knights , and peasants , screaming , fighting , gesticulating , throwing eggs filled with flour , confetti , nosegays , attacking , with their sarcasms and their missiles , friends and foes , companions and strangers , indiscriminately , and no one took offence , or did anything but laugh .
“ Very well , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , at last , furious , “ very well , since you wish it , let us leave our bones in this beggarly land , where it is always cold , where fine weather is a fog , fog is rain , and rain a deluge ; where the sun represents the moon and the moon a cream cheese ; in truth , whether we die here or elsewhere matters little , since we must die. ” “ Only reflect , my good fellow , ” said Athos , “ it is but dying rather sooner. ” “ Pooh !
“ What is it ? ” asked Villefort , rushing from his room .
One of us would suffice. ” “ Really , my dear Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the cardinal , “ your coolness startles me. ” “ I should have thought , on the contrary , that it ought to have inspired you with confidence. ” “ And Bernouin—do I not take him with me ? ” “ There is no room for him , he will rejoin your eminence. ” “ Let us go , ” said Mazarin , “ since everything must be done as you wish. ” “ My lord , there is time to draw back , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and your eminence is perfectly free. ” “ Not at all , not at all , ” said Mazarin ; “ let us be off. ” And so they descended the private stair , Mazarin leaning on the arm of D ’ Artagnan a hand the musketeer felt trembling .
The red cap of one of the sailors hung to a point of the rock and some timbers that had formed part of the vessel ’ s keel , floated at the foot of the crag .
Yes , monsieur. ” “ Afraid of being heard !
“ Well , ” continued Valentine , “ the reason of my proposing it was that I might escape this hateful marriage , which drives me to despair. ” Noirtier ’ s breathing came thick and short .
Aramis blushed excessively , and snatched rather than took the handkerchief from the hand of the Gascon .
I recommend you to sink forthwith to the bottom of the sea ; and if you come another fathom nearer , I ’ ll stave your wicked head in with this oar. ” “ D ’ Artagnan !
“ I am not willing it should be known I have left the camp ; and if they follow us we shall be certain they will tell nobody. ” “ We are gentlemen , monseigneur , ” said Athos ; “ require our parole , and give yourself no uneasiness .
D ’ Artagnan offered to lower the blinds of the royal carriage , but the young king stretched out his arm , saying : “ No , sir !
My mother gave it to me , and I , fool as I was , instead of keeping the ring as a holy relic , gave it to this wretch. ” “ Then , my friend , take back this ring , to which I see you attach much value. ” “ I take back the ring , after it has passed through the hands of that infamous creature ?
What brings you to Paris ? ” “ Affairs of importance which you shall know later .
I now repeat that I was born at Auteuil on the night of the 27th of September , 1817 , and that I am the son of the procureur , M. de Villefort .
Not at all , my dear sir , ’ said La Carconte in her most gracious manner .
In the eyes of everybody it seemed fit for table , and preserved its wholesome appearance .
“ The explanation would be too long , my dear landlord , ” replied Franz .
“ Come , ” said D ’ Artagnan , after a conference of five minutes ’ duration , “ let us begin our journey. ” “ Where are we to go ? ” asked Porthos .
“ We shall wait for you , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , loud enough for the cardinal to hear him .
You have , doubtless , already guessed that I was preparing a surprise for you ? ” “ An agreeable one ? ” asked the Italian .
“ So , ” said Charles , “ he who knocks down there—— ” “ Is the Comte de la Fere , sire , ” said Aramis .
“ My orders ? ” asked Grimaud .
“ Why don ’ t we go in with them ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Yes. ” “ What is it ? ” “ Have you confidence in me ? ” “ Give your orders , ” said the three musketeers .
And what brought you here ? ” “ I came to thank God for my happy deliverance , ” said Rochefort .
If Monsieur Aramis hesitates to come , ” he said , “ tell him I am from Tours. ” “ From Tours ! ” cried Aramis .
“ Yes , but in my soul much more than in my body. ” “ We will save your soul , ” said the young man ; “ but are you really the executioner of Bethune , as these people say ? ” “ That is to say , ” eagerly replied the wounded man , who doubtless feared that the name of executioner would take from him the last help that he could claim— “ that is to say , I was , but am no longer ; it is fifteen years since I gave up the office .
“ What , M. de Villefort , ” cried the president , “ do you yield to an hallucination ?
It was evident that this time the young woman was not in such haste to retire to her apartment as she had been the first .
As for the Duc de Beaufort , he arrived from Vendome , according to the annals of the day , bringing with him his high bearing and his long and beautiful hair , qualifications which gained him the sovereignty of the marketplaces .
The conversation naturally fell upon the incarceration of the poor man .
Yes , indeed , I have often thought with a bitter joy that these riches , which would make the wealth of a dozen families , will be forever lost to those men who persecute me .
or to speak in plain terms , do you really think that what you do deserves being called anything ? ” Villefort ’ s astonishment redoubled at this second thrust so forcibly made by his strange adversary .
“ A fine name , ” said Morrel .
Cries of “ Death !
The whole of the next day was spent in preparations for departure .
“ I shall hear from you ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Thanks , thanks , dear love , adieu ! ” The sound of a kiss was heard , and Valentine fled through the avenue .
Let us say in passing that he had changed his baldric and relinquished his cloak .
Well , sit down , and let us begin with these pilchards , and this fresh butter ; which I have put on some vine-leaves to please you , wicked one .
It appeared to her that the sounds spread to a distance beneath the vaulted roofs , and carried with them a magic charm to soften the hearts of her jailers .
He has been hanged and quartered , I hope. ” “ My God , my God ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , quite stunned by the relation of this horrible adventure .
The other , of mature age , seemed to have the former one under her charge , and was cold , dry and yellow—the true type of a duenna or a devotee .
Perhaps some day they will want to make you king , instead of the Prince of Wales , or the Duke of York , your elder brothers .
one can no more now reckon on one ’ s friends than on one ’ s footmen , ” said Porthos .
If it is a workman , I need but knock against the wall , and he will cease to work , in order to find out who is knocking , and why he does so ; but as his occupation is sanctioned by the governor , he will soon resume it .
The Departure for Belgium A few minutes after the scene of confusion produced in the salons of M. Danglars by the unexpected appearance of the brigade of soldiers , and by the disclosure which had followed , the mansion was deserted with as much rapidity as if a case of plague or of cholera morbus had broken out among the guests .
Besides , a signal made half a league out at sea , and to which _La Jeune Amélie_ replied by a similar signal , indicated that the moment for business had come .
A gentleman has but his word , and I have given you mine. ” With a heavy heart , D ’ Artagnan again bent his way toward the ferry .
Corbleu !
If she had been a great lady she would have fainted ; but as she was only a procurator ’ s wife , she contented herself saying to the Musketeer with concentrated fury , “ Eh , Monsieur Porthos , you don ’ t offer me any holy water ? ” Porthos , at the sound of that voice , started like a man awakened from a sleep of a hundred years .
“ Leave me ! ” she exclaimed ; “ you are not a man ! ” and she went out of the room .
What does he want with me ?
At the noise he made in pushing the bolt , Milady turned round .
The duke had followed with anxiety La Ramee ’ s unspoken soliloquy , reading it from point to point upon his face .
Athos ’ s idea ! ” cried Aramis and D ’ Artagnan , at the same time .
“ A French nurse , who sent me away when I was five years old because no one paid her for me , telling me the name of a relation of whom she had heard my mother often speak. ” “ What became of you ? ” “ As I was weeping and begging on the high road , a minister from Kingston took me in , instructed me in the Calvinistic faith , taught me all he knew himself and aided me in my researches after my family. ” “ And these researches ? ” “ Were fruitless ; chance did everything. ” “ You discovered what had become of your mother ? ” “ I learned that she had been assassinated by my relation , aided by four friends , but I was already aware that I had been robbed of my wealth and degraded from my nobility by King Charles I. ” “ Oh !
“ Yes , I see , for the young man Raoul , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The old man winked his eyes expressively , which we may remember was his only way of expressing his approval .
Six hours after he left Pierrefonds he was at Saint Germain .
“ My dear friend , ” cried Aramis .
“ Look ! ” said the boy , “ there ’ s our beadle , who is going a journey. ” “ And where is he going ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
I command thee ! ” said the duke .
The party assembled , the room was lighted with waxlights , and the prisoner , with a bit of plaster he had taken out of the wall of his room , had traced a long white line , representing a cord , on the floor .
At ten steps from the place where they halted was a young man in black , who seemed waiting for some one , and who , from the moment he saw them enter the town , never took his eyes off them .
Monte Cristo shook it coldly , according to his invariable practice .
“ Enter .
Bonacieux .
Almost immediately the door of the carriage was opened , the young man sprang lightly out and presented his hand to Milady , who leaned upon it , and in her turn alighted with tolerable calmness .
“ No , my child , no , ” said Madame de Saint-Méran ; “ but I was impatiently waiting for your arrival , that I might send for your father. ” “ My father ? ” inquired Valentine , uneasily .
yes , it is so long ago , ” answered Porthos .
Your captivity shall be mild , be assured ; and as every inconvenience deserves its indemnification , here is , in addition to the price of the studs , an order for a thousand pistoles , to make you forget the annoyance I cause you. ” D ’ Artagnan could not get over the surprise created in him by this minister , who thus open-handed , sported with men and millions .
20317m “ Caderousse shuddered .
Her first trial was lost ; she acted like a woman who reckons up her resources .
D ’ Artagnan looked , and was seized with pleasure .
“ Oh , madame , ” said the count , when Valentine had left the room , “ was it on my account that you sent Mademoiselle de Villefort away ? ” “ By no means , ” replied the young lady quickly ; “ but this is the hour when we usually give M. Noirtier the unwelcome meal that sustains his pitiful existence .
They brought him into this room and placed sentinels at the doors and windows .
Two or three chairs were thrown down as if there had been a struggle .
“ Yes , yes , ” said Valentine , “ you mean that I have yet a kind grandfather left , do you not. ” The old man intimated that such was his meaning .
“ Come , then , ” said the minister ; “ I will conduct you to her , but remember , not one word of our conversation. ” “ What has passed between us concerns ourselves alone , my lord , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
The king danced facing the queen , and every time he passed by her , he devoured with his eyes those studs of which he could not ascertain the number .
Sleeplessness inflamed my eyes ; I had not dared to sleep a single instant .
Well , he found us on his road and will not be baron this time .
The count took out a small quantity of this with a gilt spoon , and offered it to Morrel , fixing a long steadfast glance upon him .
As soon as there was room for rowing , his companion rejoined him and the boat began to move more rapidly .
“ ‘ Well , ’ said the jeweller , as he placed himself at table , ‘ all I can say is , so much the worse for those who are abroad. ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ chimed in La Carconte , ‘ they will have a wretched night of it. ’ “ The jeweller began eating his supper , and the woman , who was ordinarily so querulous and indifferent to all who approached her , was suddenly transformed into the most smiling and attentive hostess .
“ I ’ faith , no , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I was not in voice ; Monsieur du Vallon has a cold and did not cry either .
“ Ah !
The young man turned round , thinking that Danglars or Monte Cristo had forgotten something they wished to tell him , and had returned just as they were starting .
“ This moment was frightful ; if I had any doubts as to my misfortune , these doubts had vanished in an overwhelming reality .
It is woman who has ruined us , still ruins us , and will ruin us , as long as the world stands .
Sometimes a chief is wanted , but when a chief presents himself he rarely has to wait long for a band of followers .
I shall strangle you both if you don ’ t get out , ” said Porthos at last , seizing Mousqueton by the throat .
Soon a torrent of vivid sparks fell around them—then , at last , the volcano was extinguished—then all was dark and still—the floating bark and heaving ocean .
Nevertheless , they had not the power of convincing Milady .
“ God ’ s blood ! ” cried the officer , “ have they killed him ?
I swear it was time for you to come back , La Ramee , and I was eager to see you again. ” “ Monseigneur is too good , ” said La Ramee , flattered by the compliment .
Then an idea crossed my mind , which was confirmed when I saw the procureur lift from under his mantle a box , two feet long , and six or eight inches deep .
“ Alas , do you not know ? ” “ What new calamity ? ” “ My daughter—— ” “ Mademoiselle Danglars ? ” “ Eugénie has left us ! ” “ Good heavens , what are you telling me ? ” “ The truth , my dear count .
It is not of him that I am now thinking .
Madame Danglars and Eugénie were going out at that moment ; they heard the cause of the disturbance .
To SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate .
If you repent of the manner in which you have acted toward me , the young girl who brings you this will tell you how a man of spirit may obtain his pardon .
The general was stout and tall , the president offered him the side of the railing to assist him in getting down .
He put one hand on his heart to still its beating and the other over his eyes , that he might not witness the slaying of his faithful friends .
“ But why did that man attack Porthos rather than any other one of us ? ” asked Aramis .
“ I understand , ” said Monte Cristo , well acquainted with Ali ’ s pantomime ; “ you mean to tell me that three female attendants await their new mistress in her sleeping-chamber. ” Ali , with considerable animation , made a sign in the affirmative .
But first write your request to Dessessart .
Noirtier ?
He was at that period of intoxication in which vulgar drinkers fall on the floor and go to sleep .
We have money ? ” “ A little , ” said Mazarin , trembling , lest Anne should ask to draw upon his purse .
“ Yes , ’ tis too true , ” said Comminges , “ ’ tis almost a prison ; but what a singular fancy this is of yours , count—you , who are the very flower of our nobility—to squander your valor and loyalty amongst these upstarts , the Frondists !
Athos and Aramis were more and more astonished .
The coadjutor is at this moment one of the seven kings of Paris , and has a court .
It was about nine o ’ clock in the morning .
“ It is for me to reply to that ! ” And the man in the red cloak came forward in his turn .
“ Madame , the passage is quite clear and your majesty can continue your road. ” In fact , the procession arrived , in safety at Notre Dame , at the front gate of which all the clergy , with the coadjutor at their head , awaited the king , the queen and the minister , for whose happy return they chanted a Te Deum .
They quitted Paris , beholding it abandoned to extreme want , bordering on famine ; agitated by fear , torn by faction .
Here and there on the walls of the staircase , were reflected gigantic shadows , which trembled in the flickering light of the pine-torches till they seemed to reach to the vaulted roof above .
“ It was the end of November , all the verdure of the garden had disappeared , the trees were nothing more than skeletons with their long bony arms , and the dead leaves sounded on the gravel under my feet .
Are the oars in the boat ? ” “ Everything is ready. ” “ ’ Tis well. ” Mordaunt knelt down and fastened one end of the train to the spigot , in order that he might have nothing to do but to set it on fire at the opposite end with the match .
“ Give him the despatch , Raoul !
The duke , however , overcame all difficulties with a word—his majesty ’ s order ; and , in spite of the protestations which the master of ceremonies made for the honor of his office and principles , Villefort was introduced .
He went therefore to his appointment with Athos without a second , determined to be satisfied with those his adversary should choose .
Dantès , your health. ” Fernand rose impatiently .
Oh !
Anne of Austria was then twenty-six or twenty-seven years of age ; that is to say , she was in the full splendor of her beauty .
When he believed that the right moment had arrived , he took the knife , pried open the teeth , which offered less resistance than before , counted one after the other twelve drops , and watched ; the phial contained , perhaps , twice as much more .
I will not answer for them .
General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone .
D ’ Artagnan looked attentively at the building .
“ For the king ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ Madame , ” he said to the duchess , “ I have had the boldness to present myself at your hotel without being known to you ; it has succeeded , since you deign to receive me .
Neither had he neglected to ascertain the name of the piece to be played that night at the Teatro Argentina , and also what performers appeared in it .
As on the evening before , the soldier stopped his march to listen to her .
“ Leave me alone , ” said Aramis impatiently .
“ All that the heart of a woman could contain of haughty contempt and disdainful words , I poured out upon this man .
“ What ! ” said Kitty , blushing .
At his announcement D ’ Artagnan felt himself tremble to the very marrow of his bones .
I am something of a physician , and have , like my fellows , sought more than once for the soul in living and in dead matter ; yet , like Providence , it has remained invisible to my eyes , although present to my heart .
An angel alone could have saved one of us from death—that angel came from heaven , if not to make us friends ( which , alas , fatality renders impossible ) , at least to make us esteem each other. ” Monte Cristo , with moistened eye , heaving breast , and lips half open , extended to Albert a hand which the latter pressed with a sentiment resembling respectful fear .
I am almost ashamed to say that my gains amounted to 5,000 francs .
Besides , let me own something to you .
“ What is he waiting for ? ” asked another .
I am dying with anxiety .
“ I really never met with one woman so ready to do justice to the charms of another as yourself , ” responded Lucien , raising his lorgnette to his eye .
With a little more heart , he might have been contented with this new conquest ; but the principal features of his character were ambition and pride .
What is your name , in your turn , if you please ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan. ” “ To yours , monsieur. ” “ And above all others , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , as if carried away by his enthusiasm , “ to that of the king and the cardinal. ” The leader of the posse would perhaps have doubted the sincerity of D ’ Artagnan if the wine had been bad ; but the wine was good , and he was convinced .
Dantès read it .
But as if the multitude had waited only for this demonstration to burst out , all the sentiments of hostility that possessed it exploded simultaneously .
The first words exchanged between the four friends , on account of the ceremony which each of them mingled with their demonstration , were somewhat forced and even the repast began with a kind of stiffness .
“ The house , as I said , is between the court and the garden ; in this way , do you see ? ” Andrea drew the garden , the court and the house .
“ Ah ! ” said the king , “ I was unjust ; here is a creature that loves me .
Why did you talk of a regiment , Athos ?
“ We are alone , sir , ” said Buckingham ; “ speak ! ” “ My Lord , ” said Felton , “ the Baron de Winter wrote to you the other day to request you to sign an order of embarkation relative to a young woman named Charlotte Backson. ” “ Yes , sir ; and I answered him , to bring or send me that order and I would sign it. ” “ Here it is , my Lord. ” “ Give it to me , ” said the duke .
“ Oh !
But this time , instead of avoiding him the stranger jumped from his horse , and advanced to meet D ’ Artagnan .
It was the first time Franz had ever seen a guillotine , —we say guillotine , because the Roman _mandaïa_ is formed on almost the same model as the French instrument.7 The knife , which is shaped like a crescent , that cuts with the convex side , falls from a less height , and that is all the difference .
“ My very self , dear friend. ” “ Me , also ! ” repeated Porthos .
The battle soon became general and the coadjutor performed miracles of valor .
At a short distance a group of two men and three horses appeared in the shade .
Was it a corps sent out to make a diversion ?
“ Pardon me , my friend , if I disturb you , ” said the man with the red handkerchief , “ but I want to speak to you. ” “ You have no right to beg at night , ” said the groom , endeavoring to rid his master of the troublesome intruder .
“ There is one comfort , we are all in cash , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
D ’ Artagnan , Porthos and Aramis uttered a cry of joy .
At the other end of the room , under a white sheet which covered it , lay the corpse , still more alarming to Morrel since the account he had so unexpectedly overheard .
“ But why has he waited till now ?
“ I tell you , ” one of them was saying , “ that if Coysel predicted that , ’ tis as good as true ; I know nothing about it , but I have heard say that he ’ s not only an astrologer , but a magician. ” “ Deuce take it , friend , if he ’ s one of thy friends thou wilt ruin him in saying so. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because he may be tried for it. ” “ Ah !
We may well pity the poor fellows ! ” said the abbé .
Porthos ’ s chamber is , you say , on the first story , Number One ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , the handsomest in the inn—a chamber that I could have let ten times over. ” “ Bah !
“ Yes , ” he said , “ there have been some who have suffered more than I have , but then they must have been martyrs at least. ” “ Do you repent ? ” asked a deep , solemn voice , which caused Danglars ’ hair to stand on end .
“ Since you appear to know so many things , can you tell me what is become of that woman ? ” “ I presume that she has returned to Tours. ” “ To Tours ?
In the first , blazed piles of golden coin ; in the second , were ranged bars of unpolished gold , which possessed nothing attractive save their value ; in the third , Edmond grasped handfuls of diamonds , pearls , and rubies , which , as they fell on one another , sounded like hail against glass .
And King Charles is well , as I have just heard ? ” “ He is dead , my lord ! ” said Aramis .
They were therefore much astonished and delighted in the regiment when they saw the young man come back safe and sound .
“ Pooh ! ” said the duke , too much astonished to believe it true .
Chapter LIV .
He delayed presenting himself at Morrel ’ s , but the owner , hearing of his arrival , went to see him .
Is it possible that God has abandoned His representative on earth and left him to die thus miserably ?
Take care , I repeat to you , take care .
Mademoiselle Danglars was still the same—cold , beautiful , and satirical .
“ Mother , ” he said , turning towards Mercédès , “ this is M. Debray , secretary of the Minister for the Interior , once a friend of mine. ” “ How once ? ” stammered Debray ; “ what do you mean ? ” “ I say so , M. Debray , because I have no friends now , and I ought not to have any .
The bandits looked on with astonishment at this singular conduct until they heard footsteps .
Two lackeys dragged Milady , whom each held by one arm .
“ Everyone is free to ask what he pleases. ” “ That ’ s true , ” replied Jacopo ; “ I only make a remark. ” “ Well , you would do much better to find him a jacket and a pair of trousers , if you have them. ” “ No , ” said Jacopo ; “ but I have a shirt and a pair of trousers. ” “ That is all I want , ” interrupted Dantès .
“ And you say that Signor Vampa exercises his profession at this moment in the environs of Rome ? ” “ And with a boldness of which no bandit before him ever gave an example. ” “ Then the police have vainly tried to lay hands on him ? ” “ Why , you see , he has a good understanding with the shepherds in the plains , the fishermen of the Tiber , and the smugglers of the coast .
It is when one is lowest on the wheel of fortune that the merry-go-round wheels and rewards us .
“ My good friend , ” said Albert , “ I beg pardon for my intrusion , but I was anxious to know from your own mouth if your master was really out or not. ” “ He is really out , sir , ” replied Baptistin .
One may forsake a mistress , but a wife , —good heavens !
“ Before God and before men , ” said he , “ I accuse this woman of having poisoned Constance Bonacieux , who died yesterday evening. ” He turned towards Porthos and Aramis .
Never sell it ; allow it to die tranquilly and honorably of old age , and if you make a campaign with it , take as much care of it as you would of an old servant .
“ No , I would join the escort. ” Athos ’ s eyes shone with joy .
Cavalcanti , ” continued Danglars , “ is about to marry you , and will place in my hands his fortune , amounting to three million livres. ” “ That is admirable ! ” said Eugénie with sovereign contempt , smoothing her gloves out one upon the other .
“ Well , then , ” said D ’ Artagnan , gaily , “ let us sell the diamond , and say no more about it. ” The fusillade continued ; but the four friends were out of reach , and the Rochellais only fired to appease their consciences .
You are irritated and vexed—tell me how this Fernand is related to you ? ” “ He is merely my father , ” said Albert— “ M .
Thus , then , you will take this bag , and you will go away without being too malcontent. ” “ I go away enchanted. ” “ Farewell , then , or rather , _au revoir_ , for I hope we shall meet again. ” “ Whenever Monseigneur wishes , I am always at at his Eminence ’ s orders. ” “ That will be frequently , I assure you , for I have found something extremely agreeable in your conversation. ” “ Oh !
In the front room the follower was also still asleep , her head leaning back on the chair , in all respects worthy of her mistress .
Eugénie bowed coldly to the count , and availed herself of the first moment when the conversation became earnest to escape to her study , whence very soon two cheerful and noisy voices being heard in connection with occasional notes of the piano assured Monte Cristo that Mademoiselle Danglars preferred to his society and to that of M. Cavalcanti the company of Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly , her singing teacher .
When I strove to speak , a few inarticulate sounds alone escaped my lips .
But there was no getting at the place of sojourn of the future abbé ; the defiles of the chamber of Aramis were as well guarded as the gardens of Armida .
God help me ! ” Chapter 107 .
The chief beauty of trees consists in the deep shadow of their umbrageous boughs , while fancy pictures a moving multitude of shapes and forms flitting and passing beneath that shade .
Mme .
These four men were not princes , neither were they dukes , neither were they men in power ; they were not even rich .
“ What would you have ? ” said the Musketeer .
“ Suddenly we heard loud cries ; and , listening , discerned that they were cries of joy .
“ Alas , ” continued the stranger , doubtless to dispel the slight cloud that covered Morcerf ’ s brow , “ we do not act thus in Italy ; we grow according to our race and our species , and we pursue the same lines , and often the same uselessness , all our lives. ” “ But , monsieur , ” said the Count of Morcerf , “ for a man of your merit , Italy is not a country , and France opens her arms to receive you ; respond to her call .
40044m “ ‘ General d ’ Épinay passed for one of the best swordsmen in the army , but he was pressed so closely in the onset that he missed his aim and fell .
The face of the steward , despite one slight shade of care , light as a summer cloud , seemed a physiognomy of absolute felicity .
The whole assembly uttered a long murmur of astonishment .
But , no !
This frequently happened .
He went to bed at his usual hour , and slept in peace .
“ What will you do with the letter , then ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Some years only .
Has your uneasiness anything to do with what M. de Blacas has told me , and M. de Villefort has just confirmed ? ” M. de Blacas moved suddenly towards the baron , but the fright of the courtier pleaded for the forbearance of the statesman ; and besides , as matters were , it was much more to his advantage that the prefect of police should triumph over him than that he should humiliate the prefect .
With an instinctive hatred of matrimony , she suffered Andrea ’ s attentions in order to get rid of Morcerf ; but when Andrea urged his suit , she betrayed an entire dislike to him .
At length they reached the tent , lit a lamp , and while Planchet stood at the entrance that the four friends might not be surprised , D ’ Artagnan , with a trembling hand , broke the seal and opened the so anxiously expected letter .
Franz paused for a moment .
The next two days passed in much the same way .
The brand disappeared ; the beauty alone remained .
They had left the Ile Ratonneau , where the lighthouse stood , on the right , and were now opposite the Point des Catalans .
I am , temporarily , commander of the _Pharaon_ , with the certainty of being permanently so , if that fool of a Caderousse can be persuaded to hold his tongue .
“ Prince Cavalcanti , ” said the latter ; “ Prince Cavalcanti , where are you ? ” “ Andrea , Andrea , ” repeated several young people , who were already on sufficiently intimate terms with him to call him by his Christian name .
As soon as you see him get up , stretch out your arm and seize him by the neck .
Remember that the queen awaits you , and after the queen , the cardinal , and after the cardinal , myself. ” D ’ Artagnan summoned Anne of Austria ’ s servant and signified that he was ready to follow him into the queen ’ s presence .
“ Stop !
“ And now , ” he said , when he saw that Dantès had read the last line , “ put the two fragments together , and judge for yourself. ” Dantès obeyed , and the conjointed pieces gave the following : 0245m “ This 25th day of April , 1498 , be ... ing invited to dine by his Holiness Alexander VI. , and fearing that not ... content with making me pay for my hat , he may desire to become my heir , and re ... serves for me the fate of Cardinals Caprara and Bentivoglio , who were poisoned , ... I declare to my nephew , Guido Spada , my sole heir , that I have bu ... ried in a place he knows and has visited with me , that is , in ... the caves of the small Island of Monte Cristo , all I poss ... essed of ingots , gold , money , jewels , diamonds , gems ; that I alone ... know of the existence of this treasure , which may amount to nearly two mil ... lions of Roman crowns , and which he will find on raising the twentieth ro ... ck from the small creek to the east in a right line .
“ Look at this ray of light which enters by my window , ” said the abbé , “ and then observe the lines traced on the wall .
“ Will you now have the kindness to explain the nature of the statement which has displeased you ? ” “ An announcement has been made which implicates the honor of a member of my family. ” “ What is it ? ” said Beauchamp , much surprised ; “ surely you must be mistaken. ” “ The story sent you from Yanina. ” “ Yanina ? ” “ Yes ; really you appear to be totally ignorant of the cause which brings me here. ” “ Such is really the case , I assure you , upon my honor !
by Jove , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you have well said , but these are only words .
You say you desire my mother ’ s good opinion ; I assure you it is already yours to a very unusual extent. ” 30111m “ Do you think so ? ” said Monte Cristo , with interest .
At five o ’ clock the next morning she again proceeded , and in three hours after entered Béthune .
“ Dearest , ” exclaimed Valentine , with her adorable smile , “ awake , and look at me ! ” Morrel uttered a loud exclamation , and frantic , doubtful , dazzled , as though by a celestial vision , he fell upon his knees .
“ Beware of a profane taste in your theological style .
What is he waiting for ?
SOUBRETTE AND MISTRESS Meantime , as we have said , despite the cries of his conscience and the wise counsels of Athos , D ’ Artagnan became hourly more in love with Milady .
The two gentlemen were obliged , therefore , to get off their horses and take a boat ; and in that strange manner they approached the Louvre .
“ ‘ It is I , ’ shouted a voice .
“ Disguised as a coachman ! ” exclaimed Mazarin .
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™ ’ s goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will remain freely available for generations to come .
Debray , with the air of a man familiar with the house , entered first into the court , threw his bridle into the hands of a footman , and returned to the door to receive Madame Danglars , to whom he offered his arm , to conduct her to her apartments .
“ Ah , sir ! ” cried Olivain , “ what are you doing ?
“ Be , ” said the letter , “ on Thursday next , at from six to seven o ’ clock in the evening , on the road to Chaillot , and look carefully into the carriages that pass ; but if you have any consideration for your own life or that of those who love you , do not speak a single word , do not make a movement which may lead anyone to believe you have recognized her who exposes herself to everything for the sake of seeing you but for an instant. ” No signature .
Look , I shall turn to the left , so that the soldier will be at your right , as soon as he mounts on the bench to talk to us. ” “ But supposing he doesn ’ t mount ? ” “ He will ; rely upon it .
What advantage should I have over you , if knowing your secret I were to tell you mine ? ” Danglars bit his lips .
“ Yes ; yours—your own property. ” “ Sir , my right-hand correspondent is signalling. ” “ Let him signal. ” “ Sir , you have distracted me ; I shall be fined. ” “ That will cost you a hundred francs ; you see it is your interest to take my bank-notes. ” “ Sir , my right-hand correspondent redoubles his signals ; he is impatient. ” “ Never mind—take these ; ” and the count placed the packet in the man ’ s hands .
However , I have managed to live thirty years without this protection , you will say ; but I will endeavor a little to illustrate my meaning .
The inquiries soon commenced .
Shake hands—I crave your friendship. ” “ Sir , ” said Raoul , returning the count ’ s pressure of the hand , “ I like you already , from my heart ; pray regard me as a devoted friend , I beseech you. ” “ And now , where are you going , viscount ? ” inquired De Guiche .
Breathe not a word of that , or the Comte de la Fere will be furious. ” “ You think the count will be angry with me ? ” “ Think it ?
He had scarcely arrived at the top when he heard a heavy splash in the water—it was the general ’ s body , which the witnesses had just thrown into the river after ascertaining that he was dead .
Madame Bonacieux is lost ; so much the worse for her if she is found. ” “ No , Athos , no , you are mistaken , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I love my poor Constance more than ever , and if I knew the place in which she is , were it at the end of the world , I would go to free her from the hands of her enemies ; but I am ignorant .
You evidently know her .
“ Madame , ” he replied , “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ’ s prediction has been accomplished ; they are calm , as if by enchantment .
Bonacieux would have any suspicion .
D ’ Artagnan now saw that affairs were growing worse and he beat the guard ’ s march upon the door .
He had contemplated danger with a smile , and when wounded had exclaimed with the great philosopher , “ Pain , thou art not an evil. ” He had , moreover , looked upon the customs officer wounded to death , and , whether from heat of blood produced by the encounter , or the chill of human sentiment , this sight had made but slight impression upon him .
Loud roars of laughter and sullen murmurs arose together .
Fernand was enrolled in the active army , went to the frontier with his regiment , and was at the battle of Ligny .
since you say I am sold. ” “ To cross the Tyne , reach Scotland and rejoin Lord Montrose , who will not sell you. ” “ And what shall I do in Scotland ?
“ They ’ re after me ! ” was Andrea ’ s first thought .
Bonacieux had the sweetest smile in the world .
This awakening you have given me ; allow me , then , to enjoy it at my ease , ” and taking her hand , she drew her toward the armchair by the bedside .
what has happened ? ” “ Lord ! ” ejaculated the young princess , falling on her knees , “ have mercy on us ! ” “ Sir , ” said Chatillon , “ if you bring bad tidings it will be cruel in you to announce them to the queen. ” Aramis went so close to Chatillon as almost to touch him .
Ever since Valentine ’ s dowry had been mentioned , Morrel had been silent and sad .
I make the first advances ? ” said the king .
“ ‘ Madame , ’ replied the president , bowing with profound respect , ‘ allow me to ask one question ; it shall be the last : Can you prove the authenticity of what you have now stated ? ’ “ ‘ I can , sir , ’ said Haydée , drawing from under her veil a satin satchel highly perfumed ; ‘ for here is the register of my birth , signed by my father and his principal officers , and that of my baptism , my father having consented to my being brought up in my mother ’ s faith , —this latter has been sealed by the grand primate of Macedonia and Epirus ; and lastly ( and perhaps the most important ) , the record of the sale of my person and that of my mother to the Armenian merchant El-Kobbir , by the French officer , who , in his infamous bargain with the Porte , had reserved as his part of the booty the wife and daughter of his benefactor , whom he sold for the sum of four hundred thousand francs. ’ A greenish pallor spread over the count ’ s cheeks , and his eyes became bloodshot at these terrible imputations , which were listened to by the assembly with ominous silence .
More than a year had been consumed in this undertaking , the only tools for which had been a chisel , a knife , and a wooden lever ; Faria still continuing to instruct Dantès by conversing with him , sometimes in one language , sometimes in another ; at others , relating to him the history of nations and great men who from time to time have risen to fame and trodden the path of glory .
“ The study does not take long ; it was acting as a supernumerary that was so tedious. ” “ And what is the pay ? ” “ A thousand francs , sir. ” “ It is nothing. ” “ No ; but then we are lodged , as you perceive. ” Monte Cristo looked at the room .
“ You are much pleased with yourself , ” said he to Raoul when they were alone , “ are you not ? ” “ Well , yes , ” replied Raoul .
He was going to throw the crawfish out also , when Grimaud snatched it from his hands .
“ We know him , ” said Athos , “ he never left the king. ” “ Yes , that is he .
“ Nor you to mine , ” cried the abbé .
No , it will all go well ; M. d ’ Épinay , if he is an honorable man , will consider himself more than ever pledged to Mademoiselle de Villefort , unless he were actuated by a decided feeling of avarice , but that is impossible. ” “ I agree with M. de Villefort , ” said Monte Cristo , fixing his eyes on Madame de Villefort ; “ and if I were sufficiently intimate with him to allow of giving my advice , I would persuade him , since I have been told M. d ’ Épinay is coming back , to settle this affair at once beyond all possibility of revocation .
In a corner was the Spanish companion , Donna Estafania , who had followed her from Madrid .
It was Mordaunt .
Thus they applied very curtly to the salutations , healths , and jokes of their companions .
Such things , ” continued Bertuccio , shaking his head , “ are only related under the seal of confession. ” “ Then , ” said the count , “ I refer you to your confessor .
“ What is this ? ” asked Mercédès .
“ I know who it is ! ” Then putting his face to the lowered blinds , he said : “ I wish you joy , my lord ! ” “ Impudent fellow ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ you will get me turned off. ” The gate groaned on its hinges , and D ’ Artagnan , seeing the way clear , whipped his horses , who started at a canter , and five minutes later they had rejoined the cardinal .
M. Danglars is my banker ; M. de Villefort has overwhelmed me with politeness in return for a service which a casual piece of good fortune enabled me to render him .
“ It seems to me I did my duty .
Monte Cristo raised his head once more , and this time he was calm as a child awaking from its sleep .
What was your deputy called ? ” “ De Villefort ! ” The abbé burst into a fit of laughter , while Dantès gazed on him in utter astonishment .
He was dressed in plain clothes , and wore at his button-hole the ribbons of the different orders to which he belonged .
Are you still actuated by the regret which drags the living to the pursuit of death ; or are you only suffering from the prostration of fatigue and the weariness of hope deferred ?
“ You are not exactly right , M. Procureur ; you must go farther back. ” “ That voice , that voice ! —where did I first hear it ? ” “ You heard it for the first time at Marseilles , twenty-three years ago , the day of your marriage with Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran .
The other two gentlemen were unknown to him .
She evidently interrogated him by her look .
As soon as his engagement with the patron of _La Jeune Amélie_ ended , he would hire a small vessel on his own account—for in his several voyages he had amassed a hundred piastres—and under some pretext land at the Island of Monte Cristo .
Well !
“ Do , ” said Aramis .
I am well , I want nothing ; do not call him. ” She gave so much vehemence , such magnetic eloquence to this exclamation , that Felton in spite of himself advanced some steps into the room .
“ Certainly , women alone know how to dissimulate , ” said Monte Cristo to himself , glancing at Madame Danglars , who was smiling on the procureur , and embracing his wife .
I know the French as well as if I had made them myself .
The good wine which Mousqueton had placed before them traced out in glowing drops to D ’ Artagnan a fine perspective , shining with quadruples and pistoles , and showed to Porthos a blue ribbon and a ducal mantle ; they were , in fact , asleep on the table when the servants came to light them to their bed .
For a moment he convulsively pressed his head within his hands , and during that brief period he became nearly mad with terror ; but soon a ray of hope glimmered in the multitude of thoughts which bewildered his mind , and a faint smile played upon his white lips and pallid cheeks .
“ I have been most anxious to see you , that I might repeat orally the thanks writing can so ill express. ” “ Surely so trifling a circumstance can not deserve a place in your remembrance .
Aramis had passed his sword through the body of the first and Athos had knocked down the other with the butt end of his pistol .
I am weeping with joy. ” He was truly crying , but it would have been difficult to say whether joy or the onions produced the greatest effect on the lachrymal glands of the old innkeeper of the Pont-du-Gard .
“ Why ? ” “ An apology on the ground ! ” said the young captain , shaking his head .
Bonacieux , addressing this epithet to her husband .
If , then , I should learn that you had taken upon yourself to speak of me to anyone favorably or unfavorably , to comment on my actions , or watch my conduct , that very instant you would quit my service .
Aramis seized the poker and gave the signal to stop ; the noise came nearer and nearer .
“ A surgeon ! ” cried M. de Tréville , “ mine !
The sounds drew nearer .
“ All is well ; we may sleep tranquilly. ” On this assurance the two friends fell asleep ; and D ’ Artagnan , who was very weary , bade good-night to Grimaud and laid himself down in his cloak , with naked sword at his side , in such a manner that his body barricaded the passage , and it should be impossible to enter the room without upsetting him .
No one had a more searching eye than the Cardinal de Richelieu , and D ’ Artagnan felt this glance run through his veins like a fever .
When the hour for his jailer ’ s visit arrived , Dantès straightened the handle of the saucepan as well as he could , and placed it in its accustomed place .
I shall be at Vendin to place it in position .
“ Yes , but never with the same advantages , ” said D ’ Artagnan , in a tone of raillery ; “ for when you meet me again you will perhaps be alone and there will be daylight. ” “ Very good , very good , ” said the voice .
No one answered to his first knocking .
Half an hour , an hour , an hour and a half elapsed , and during this period of anguish , Edmond leaned over his friend , his hand applied to his heart , and felt the body gradually grow cold , and the heart ’ s pulsation become more and more deep and dull , until at length it stopped ; the last movement of the heart ceased , the face became livid , the eyes remained open , but the eyeballs were glazed .
Houses were no longer to be seen ; trees appeared in the darkness like great black phantoms chasing one another .
It was then that the door of Edward ’ s room opened , and a head we have before noticed appeared in the glass opposite ; it was Madame de Villefort , who came to witness the effects of the drink she had prepared .
“ Albert , ” she said , in a voice which was altered by emotion , “ I have always put you on your guard against new acquaintances .
“ Here is my bed , ” replied Planchet , producing a bundle of straw .
Raoul was aroused from his sombre reflections by his host , who rushed into the apartment crying out , “ The Spaniards !
Suddenly Edmond saw the gloomy , pale , and threatening countenance of Fernand , as it was defined in the shadow .
it is an infernal apparition !
There were monks who wore the frock with such an ill grace that it was easy to perceive they belonged to the church militant ; women a little inconvenienced by their costume as pages and whose large trousers could not entirely conceal their rounded forms ; and peasants with blackened hands but with fine limbs , savoring of the man of quality a league off .
Over a species of altar , and beneath a canopy of blue velvet , surmounted by white and red plumes , was a full-length portrait of Anne of Austria , so perfect in its resemblance that D ’ Artagnan uttered a cry of surprise on beholding it .
If I believed that , I would place my arm under yours and go with you to Marseilles , leaving the house to return to it no more. ” Fernand ’ s eye darted lightning .
He retired to his toilet .
Besides , to tell truth , whilst D ’ Artagnan was quite disposed to adopt a subtle course against the cunning of Aramis or the vanity of Porthos , he was ashamed to equivocate with Athos , true-hearted , open Athos .
Early on the following morning he commenced the removal of his riches , and ere nightfall the whole of his immense wealth was safely deposited in the compartments of the secret locker .
D ’ Artagnan passed through the very midst of this discontented mob just as if his horse and he had been made of iron .
‘ What do I think , captain ?
“ Well , ” said Porthos , “ if any one had told you in the old times that the day would come when Planchet would rescue Rochefort and that you would protect him in it—— ” “ I should not have believed him ; but men are changed by events. ” “ There is nothing truer than that , ” said Porthos ; “ but what does not change , or changes for the better , is wine .
really , Villefort , you surprise me .
and why were you so affected at that story , or rather fable , which the count related ? ” “ Because I have been in such shocking spirits all the evening , my friend , ” said the baroness .
“ Come in , M. de Villefort , ” said the king , “ come in. ” Villefort bowed , and advancing a few steps , waited until the king should interrogate him .
From Châlons to Lyons you will go on by the steamboat .. 6 .
“ There , ” said he , “ there is the work complete .
Raoul , I seem to read your future destiny as through a cloud .
At the hour agreed upon Groslow came .
“ Hem ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ what does my lord think of that reply ? ” “ Man of talent ! ” cried Mazarin .
Valentine , with her woman ’ s instinct , guessed that Morrel would be Monte Cristo ’ s second , and from the young man ’ s well-known courage and his great affection for the count , she feared that he would not content himself with the passive part assigned to him .
I have already told your excellency of an innkeeper from Nîmes who had set up a little tavern on the road from Bellegarde to Beaucaire. ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo “ I perfectly recollect him ; I think he was your colleague. ” “ Precisely , ” answered Bertuccio ; “ but he had , seven or eight years before this period , sold his establishment to a tailor at Marseilles , who , having almost ruined himself in his old trade , wished to make his fortune in another .
It is impossible to know ; everything else might be guessed , but not that. ” At length Athos went to bed , apparently , for the noise ceased .
But the knife had fortunately , we ought to say skillfully , come in contact with the steel busk , which at that period , like a cuirass , defended the chests of women .
“ I suppose you know he has an order for unlimited credit on the baron ’ s banking establishment ? ” “ I was not aware of it , ” replied Albert , “ but I can readily believe it. ” “ And , further , that he stated to M. Danglars his intention of only staying a year in Paris , during which time he proposed to spend six millions .
“ But , ” said Franz , in his turn interrupting his host ’ s meditations , “ you had some motive for coming here , may I beg to know what it was ? ” 20099m “ Ah , yes ; you have ordered your carriage at eight o ’ clock precisely ? ” “ I have. ” “ You intend visiting _Il Colosseo_. ” “ You mean the Colosseum ? ” “ It is the same thing .
Edmond had all the night to work in , but in the darkness he could not do much , and he soon felt that he was working against something very hard ; he pushed back his bed , and waited for day .
At length a hand and an arm , surpassingly beautiful in their form and whiteness , glided through the tapestry .
How did your father receive him , Albert ?
“ We are four of us , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ we must relieve each other in mounting guard over my lord and each of us must watch three hours at a time .
Awakened in the night by the light of the flames , she sprang out of bed , wrapped herself in a dressing-gown , and attempted to escape by the door , but the corridor by which she hoped to fly was already a prey to the flames .
“ You would wish a notary to be sent for then ? ” said Valentine .
“ That reminds me , ” he said , “ that when you entered I was on the point of signing five little bonds ; I have already signed two : will you allow me to do the same to the others ? ” “ Pray do so. ” There was a moment ’ s silence , during which the noise of the banker ’ s pen was alone heard , while Monte Cristo examined the gilt mouldings on the ceiling .
But hush , here comes our minister of justice ; he will feel obliged to make some little speech to the cousin , ” and the three young men drew near to listen .
So pray excuse yourself as well as you can for having made me wait , and , after that , tell me why I see you in a dress so singular that at first I did not recognize you. ” “ Dearest Valentine , ” said the young man , “ the difference between our respective stations makes me fear to offend you by speaking of my love , but yet I can not find myself in your presence without longing to pour forth my soul , and tell you how fondly I adore you .
Tréville , that ’ s impossible ! ” “ It is as I have the honor to relate it to your Majesty. ” “ Jussac , one of the first swordsmen in the kingdom ? ” “ Well , sire , for once he found his master. ” “ I will see this young man , Tréville—I will see him ; and if anything can be done—well , we will make it our business. ” “ When will your Majesty deign to receive him ? ” “ Tomorrow , at midday , Tréville. ” “ Shall I bring him alone ? ” “ No , bring me all four together .
D ’ Artagnan and Cahusac sprang forward at the same instant , the one to recover , the other to obtain , the sword ; but D ’ Artagnan , being the more active , reached it first and placed his foot upon it .
“ Here , ” said he to him , “ are the diamond studs that you came to bring ; and be my witness that I have done all that human power could do. ” “ Be satisfied , my Lord , I will tell all that I have seen .
The peak of Monte Cristo reddened by the burning sun , was seen against the azure sky .
everything considered , you are very well off here .
But nothing could be farther from his thoughts .
You hailed me , I think ? ” Danglars retreated a step or two .
indeed ! ” “ Does that alarm you ? ” “ No , but it agitates me. ” “ Oh !
I suppose , had he found another additional vertebra , they would have made him a commander. ” “ Very likely , ” said Albert .
“ Reverend sir , ” murmured Caderousse , seeking to regain the window , which the count pitilessly blocked— “ reverend sir , I don ’ t know—believe me—I take my oath—— ” “ A pane of glass out , ” continued the count , “ a dark lantern , a bunch of false keys , a secretaire half forced—it is tolerably evident—— ” Caderousse was choking ; he looked around for some corner to hide in , some way of escape .
Chapter 53 .
“ Albert , had you been a stranger , a foreigner , a simple lord , like that Englishman who came to demand satisfaction three or four months since , and whom I killed to get rid of , I should not have taken this trouble ; but I thought this mark of consideration due to you .
“ My dear host , and you , signora , ” said Albert , in Italian , “ excuse my apparent stupidity .
“ The Count of Monte Cristo ! ” she murmured .
“ Yes , for the mother ’ s sake—his poor mother ! ” cried the major , taking a third biscuit .
She gave the first to Athos and the other to Aramis , so that should they be separated by chance they might make themselves known to the king ; after which they withdrew .
On the way we escaped .
Suddenly Vampa turned toward his mistress : “ ‘ Ah , ’ said he— ‘ good , good !
“ Don ’ t you think the executioner might be Master Cromwell , who , to make sure of this affair , undertook it himself ? ” “ Ah !
“ I forgot that my songs are out of place in this castle .
As to D ’ Artagnan , being at bottom a prudent youth , instead of returning home , went and dined with the Gascon priest , who , at the time of the distress of the four friends , had given them a breakfast of chocolate .
my lord ! ” said the queen , “ you bring us three things which we have not seen for a long time .
You understand this , do you not , my most precious wife ?
He knocked , and it opened immediately to admit him .
He had his Musketeers therefore , as Louis XIII .
Then , turning to Ali , she directed him to bring coffee and pipes , and when he had left the room to execute the orders of his young mistress she beckoned Albert to approach nearer to her .
Raoul at the same time seized one of the young man ’ s hands and placed it on the mane , which it grasped with the tenacity of a drowning man .
Bonacieux the one he had just picked up .
“ Here you can get anything you want ; by paying for it , of course , as among honest folk. ” “ Of course ! ” cried Danglars .
She has fostered my independence by professedly indulging my love for liberty .
Nevertheless , had Caderousse but retained his post a few minutes longer , he might have caught a dim outline of something approaching from the direction of Bellegarde ; as the moving object drew nearer , he would easily have perceived that it consisted of a man and horse , between whom the kindest and most amiable understanding appeared to exist .
Porthos followed him by the same road , but with more difficulty and less diligence .
“ Planchet ! ” repeated Aramis and Porthos .
Then Monsieur de Beaufort , who was so familiar with the interior of the Palais Royal , though he did not know the relations existing between the queen and the cardinal , pictured to himself , in his prison , all that dramatic excitement which would ensue when the rumor should run from the minister ’ s cabinet to the chamber of Anne of Austria : “ Monsieur de Beaufort has escaped ! ” Whilst saying that to himself , Monsieur de Beaufort smiled pleasantly and imagined himself already outside , breathing the air of the plains and the forests , pressing a strong horse between his knees and crying out in a loud voice , “ I am free ! ” It is true that on coming to himself he found that he was still within four walls ; he saw La Ramee twirling his thumbs ten feet from him , and his guards laughing and drinking in the ante-chamber .
“ I can see nothing but his back , ” resumed Grimaud .
Oh !
They killed a dozen pheasants in the park , as many trout in the stream , dined in a summer-house overlooking the ocean , and took tea in the library .
“ In truth , I was fated , ” said she .
“ Oh , this is too much , ” cried Milady .
He made a sign for Grimaud to bring a glass for D ’ Artagnan , and Grimaud obeyed as usual .
In a few minutes a night watch passed .
He could distinguish amid the perfumes of the roses and heliotropes in the flower-stands , the sharp and fragrant odor of volatile salts , and he noticed in one of the chased cups on the mantle-piece the countess ’ s smelling-bottle , taken from its shagreen case , and exclaimed in a tone of uneasiness , as he entered : “ My dear mother , have you been ill during my absence ? ” “ No , no , Albert , but you know these roses , tuberoses , and orange-flowers throw out at first , before one is used to them , such violent perfumes. ” “ Then , my dear mother , ” said Albert , putting his hand to the bell , “ they must be taken into the antechamber .
The shortest follies are best , my dear Caderousse .
1.E.8 .
Meantime he uncorked the bottles and went to smell if the pie was good .
For my part , I should not hesitate a moment ; I should take the hundred pistoles .
That is forbidden , it seems to me. ” “ Where forbidden ? ” asked Mousqueton .
The instant Groslow put his foot upon the hatchway steps the ship opened like the crater of a volcano .
If you can be satisfied with my dinner—it consists of cooked tetragones and fruits. ” “ What do you mean by tetragones ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , uneasily .
Then he arranged all his beautiful Turkish arms , his fine English guns , his Japanese china , his cups mounted in silver , his artistic bronzes by Feuchères or Barye ; examined the cupboards , and placed the key in each ; threw into a drawer of his secretaire , which he left open , all the pocket-money he had about him , and with it the thousand fancy jewels from his vases and his jewel-boxes ; then he made an exact inventory of everything , and placed it in the most conspicuous part of the table , after putting aside the books and papers which had collected there .
“ But this is infamous ! ” cried he .
The night was dark , but still the town resounded with those noises that disclose a city in a state of siege .
The house in which Aramis dwelt was situated between the Rue Cassette and the Rue Servandoni .
The sermon over , the procurator ’ s wife advanced toward the holy font .
Moreover , other ideas , much more enthralling , occupied his mind .
“ Had I been so unhappy as not to believe in him until now , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I must believe on seeing you. ” Caderousse raised his clenched hands towards heaven .
It was against his will that Athos took these precautions , but Aramis had very judiciously reminded him that they had no right to be imprudent , that they had been charged by King Charles with a supreme and sacred mission , which , received at the foot of the scaffold , could be accomplished only at the feet of Queen Henrietta .
pronounced the famous , “ I have been almost obliged to wait. ” Bertuccio made but one bound to the antechamber , and cried in a hoarse voice : “ His excellency ’ s horses ! ” Monte Cristo wrote two or three notes , and , as he sealed the last , the steward appeared .
“ Pardon !
Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify , do copyright research on , transcribe and proofread works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project Gutenberg™ collection .
“ Sir , ” cried the latter , “ am I no longer at liberty to receive whom I choose in my house ?
“ Him to whom your excellency pays that little annuity. ” “ Oh , ” said Andrea , “ my father ’ s old servant .
You tell me he burned the letter ? ” “ He did ; saying at the same time , ‘ You see I thus destroy the only proof existing against you. ’ ” “ This action is somewhat too sublime to be natural. ” “ You think so ? ” “ I am sure of it .
Valentine , when her name was made the subject of discussion , had stepped back , to escape unpleasant observation ; her eyes were cast down , and she was crying .
He opened the door of the room in which the Musketeers were , and found Porthos playing an earnest game of dice with Aramis .
it is you , your honor , ” he said , advancing toward D ’ Artagnan ; “ and I am truly pleased to meet you. ” D ’ Artagnan looked attentively at Friquet and recognized the little chorister of the Rue de la Calandre .
The review over , the Guards set forward alone on their march , the Musketeers waiting for the king , which allowed Porthos time to go and take a turn in his superb equipment in the Rue aux Ours .
Though it certainly does cost France somewhat dear to assert her rights in that uncivilized country. ’ ” “ Brutal politics , I must confess. ” said Maximilian ; “ but don ’ t attach any serious importance , dear , to what your father said .
That is my answer. ” The answer was terrible .
The arts change about and make a tour of the world ; things take a different name , and the vulgar do not follow them—that is all ; but there is always the same result .
The more profoundly she wounded his heart , the more certainly he would avenge her .
The Departure Chapter 113 .
Either the diplomatist must give his lessons gratis , and I will tolerate him , or he must never set his foot again in my house ; —do you understand , madame ? ” “ Oh , this is too much , ” cried Hermine , choking , “ you are worse than despicable. ” “ But , ” continued Danglars , “ I find you did not even pause there—— ” “ Insults ! ” “ You are right ; let us leave these facts alone , and reason coolly .
“ Yes , I dare say ; verses perfumed with the odor of the billet from the attendant of Madame de Chevreuse .
The Swiss were drawn up along the road , but as the road was long , they were placed at six or eight feet distant from each other and one deep only .
The sergeant answered that Puritans never drank , and put the crown piece in his pocket .
She stretched out her arms to him , but they seized hold of her , and one of the three—none other than the accursed Benedetto exclaimed : “ ‘ Put her to torture and she ’ ll soon tell us where her money is. ’ “ It unfortunately happened that our neighbor , Wasilio , was at Bastia , leaving no person in his house but his wife ; no human creature beside could hear or see anything that took place within our dwelling .
She cast anchor , clued up sails , and on the deck was Captain Gaumard giving orders , and good old Penelon making signals to M. Morrel .
“ Mademoiselle , ” said the stranger , “ one day you will receive a letter signed ‘ Sinbad the Sailor. ’ Do exactly what the letter bids you , however strange it may appear. ” “ Yes , sir , ” returned Julie .
A bargain was therefore struck .
All the world was ignorant of it .
Three blows were struck upon the panel of the door .
“ Proceed , ” said the president .
It was evident that there was clamor and sedition .
“ Ah , you are a cardinalist , then , monsieur , are you ? ” cried she ; “ and you serve the party of those who maltreat your wife and insult your queen ? ” “ Private interests are as nothing before the interests of all .
Charles returned in silence to his chair , rested his elbow on the table , bowed his head upon his hand and reflected .
It lasted nearly three hours ; he then heard a noise of something falling , and all was silent .
“ I held the horses , my hands were full , your honor. ” A shot was fired that moment ; Mousqueton shrieked with pain .
I will answer them both , and contrary to the usual method , the last first , because it is the least difficult .
“ And you , my dear companion , ” said he , “ you speak of the baronesses , countesses , and princesses of others ? ” “ _Pardieu ! _ I spoke of them because Porthos talked of them himself , because he had paraded all these fine things before me .
“ _Confiteor ! _ ” said Caderousse , putting the diamond on his little finger ; “ I was mistaken ; but those thieves of jewellers imitate so well that it is no longer worthwhile to rob a jeweller ’ s shop—it is another branch of industry paralyzed. ” “ Have you finished ? ” said Andrea , — “ do you want anything more ? —will you have my waistcoat or my hat ?
Pursue your chase after him tomorrow as eagerly as you please ; but never bring him near me , if you would not see me die of terror .
Pearls fell drop by drop , as subterranean waters filter in their caves .
He fell down this morning and broke his leg .
“ You understand , baron , my grandfather wishes you to read this paper , ” said Valentine .
“ To own the truth , I should be inconsolable if you were to leave Vincennes. ” “ A droll way of showing your affliction. ” The duke meant to say “ affection. ” “ But , my lord , ” returned La Ramee , “ what would you do if you got out ?
That time you had nothing to say to me ; I had risked my life and favor to see you but for a second .
He went to him .
“ Where are you taking me ? ” he asked .
That ’ s very kind of him. ” “ Here , monsieur , ” said the cardinal to the young man .
My mother has noticed him , and he must therefore , perforce , be remarkable. ” He went down to the stables , not without some slight annoyance , when he remembered that the Count of Monte Cristo had laid his hands on a “ turnout ” which sent his bays down to second place in the opinion of connoisseurs .
D ’ Artagnan retired to bed—not to sleep , but to think over all he had heard that evening .
“ Go on , D ’ Artagnan !
Monte Cristo examined him with the same look that , at Rome , he had bent upon the execution of Andrea , and then , in a tone that made a shudder pass through the veins of the poor steward— “ The Abbé Busoni , then told me an untruth , ” said he , “ when , after his journey in France , in 1829 , he sent you to me , with a letter of recommendation , in which he enumerated all your valuable qualities .
Mazarin turned again to his papers .
They came nobody knew whence ; but when seeing her so lovely and her brother so pious , nobody thought of asking whence they came .
The mob had already assembled when the confession terminated .
“ You have no enemy here—there is no one but Fernand , my brother , who will grasp your hand as a devoted friend. ” And at these words the young girl fixed her imperious look on the Catalan , who , as if fascinated by it , came slowly towards Edmond , and offered him his hand .
It is my wish that she should marry M. Franz d ’ Épinay—and she shall marry him. ” Valentine sank weeping into a chair .
“ Oh , monsieur , I thank you with all my heart. ” “ Adieu , count , ” said the Abbé d ’ Herblay ; “ I return to my convent. ” “ Adieu , abbé , ” said the coadjutor , “ I am to preach to-morrow and have twenty texts to examine this evening. ” “ Adieu , gentlemen , ” said the count ; “ I am going to sleep twenty-four hours ; I am just falling down with fatigue. ” The three men saluted one another , whilst exchanging a last look .
Ali and his master conveyed the wounded man into a room .
Milady , however , saw that this sort of narrative amused her very much , and kept at it ; only she now let her conversation drift toward the cardinal .
There was something melancholy in this brazen voice pouring out its lamentations in the middle of the night ; but each of those strokes , which made up the expected hour , vibrated harmoniously to the heart of the young man .
He soon felt that his ideas became again collected—he could think , and strengthen his thoughts by reasoning .
Friends are shadows !
The bottle was covered with spiders ’ webs , and all the other signs which indicate the age of wine more truly than do wrinkles on a man ’ s face .
And I suspected that the conversation that had been carried on in his presence ( for they always say and do what they like before the dear old man , without the smallest regard for his feelings ) had made a strong impression on his mind ; for , naturally enough , it must have pained him to hear the emperor he so devotedly loved and served spoken of in that depreciating manner. ” “ The name of M. Noirtier , ” interposed Maximilian , “ is celebrated throughout Europe ; he was a statesman of high standing , and you may or may not know , Valentine , that he took a leading part in every Bonapartist conspiracy set on foot during the restoration of the Bourbons. ” “ Oh , I have often heard whispers of things that seem to me most strange—the father a Bonapartist , the son a Royalist ; what can have been the reason of so singular a difference in parties and politics ?
“ Tell me about it , ” said the monk , who , sitting on the foot of the bed , began to be interested in a story so strangely introduced .
Providence has declared for us , since I have found this brave man again in so miraculous a manner .
“ No one has _brought_ a letter , monsieur , ” replied Planchet ; “ but one has come of itself. ” “ What do you mean , blockhead ? ” “ I mean to say that when I came in , although I had the key of your apartment in my pocket , and that key had never quit me , I found a letter on the green table cover in your bedroom. ” “ And where is that letter ? ” “ I left it where I found it , monsieur .
I don ’ t know what devil of an insect stung me and made me ambitious .
“ Really , Porthos , you are a gifted individual ! ” “ I have heard speak , ” said Porthos , “ of a certain Milo of Crotona , who performed wonderful feats , such as binding his forehead with a cord and bursting it—of killing an ox with a blow of his fist and carrying it home on his shoulders , et cetera .
“ At least , ” D ’ Artagnan said to himself , as he took the road to Villars-Cotterets , “ at least I shall not be alone in my undertaking .
Whose is that letter of your mistress ?
That ’ s too many , gentlemen , too many !
I doubt it .
“ The same as yesterday ? ” Another nod on the part of Grimaud .
But what ails you , father ?
“ And in three months ’ time , ” said Albert , “ you will be at my house ? ” “ Shall we make a positive appointment for a particular day and hour ? ” inquired the count ; “ only let me warn you that I am proverbial for my punctilious exactitude in keeping my engagements. ” “ Day for day , hour for hour , ” said Albert ; “ that will suit me to a dot. ” “ So be it , then , ” replied the count , and extending his hand towards a calendar , suspended near the chimney-piece , he said , “ today is the 21st of February ; ” and drawing out his watch , added , “ it is exactly half-past ten o ’ clock .
Jacopo will carry you to Leghorn , where Monsieur Noirtier awaits his granddaughter , whom he wishes to bless before you lead her to the altar .
But can they , will they receive an unhappy king , who will bring such a sad story into a country already agitated by civil discord ?
“ St .
Whatever evils may befall you , they will not be occasioned by my instrumentality , that I solemnly promise you. ” La Carconte muttered a few inarticulate words , then let her head again drop upon her knees , and went into a fit of ague , leaving the two speakers to resume the conversation , but remaining so as to be able to hear every word they uttered .
Don ’ t lose a word of what I ’ m going to say to you , Porthos .
Besides , on pressing occasions , in extreme difficulties , D ’ Artagnan would become the preserver of his friends .
Porthos uttered a deep groan .
You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works .
You will then have our swords , with which , I can assure you , my friend and I can play tolerably well .
They did not even acquaint me with their intentions , and I only discovered them by chance , that is why I have been so reserved with you , dear grandpapa .
the world excuses , and notoriety ennobles you. ” “ Madame , ” replied Villefort , “ you know that I am no hypocrite , or , at least , that I never deceive without a reason .
But M. de Tréville promised this favor after a novitiate of two years—a novitiate which might besides be abridged if an opportunity should present itself for D ’ Artagnan to render the king any signal service , or to distinguish himself by some brilliant action .
“ My friend , ” said Aramis , “ take care ; our safety lies in our obscurity .
Let us separate , and let us seek the mercer ’ s wife—that is the key of the intrigue. ” “ A woman of such inferior condition !
On arriving at the angle of the trench which was to serve them as a rampart , one of the Guardsmen fell .
You can understand that a man who has such views will never allow himself to be taken , or if taken , will undergo martyrdom rather than speak. ” “ Very well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I consent to Bazin with all my heart , but grant me Planchet .
“ And have you placed the letter before him , as I ordered you to do ? ” The slave respectfully signalized that he had .
impossible ?
Therefore , tolerably secure in being able to extricate himself from his position , provided he were not rated at the unreasonable sum of 5,050,000 francs , he stretched himself on his bed , and after turning over two or three times , fell asleep with the tranquillity of the hero whose life Luigi Vampa was studying .
Now , barring all that , I mean to say she is a deuced fine girl ! ” “ Handsome , certainly , ” replied Albert , “ but not to my taste , which I confess , inclines to something softer , gentler , and more feminine. ” “ Ah , well , ” exclaimed Château-Renaud , who because he had seen his thirtieth summer fancied himself duly warranted in assuming a sort of paternal air with his more youthful friend , “ you young people are never satisfied ; why , what would you have more ?
“ Adieu , adieu ! ” murmured the old man , clasping Edmond ’ s hand convulsively— “ adieu ! ” “ Oh , no , —no , not yet , ” he cried ; “ do not forsake me !
And now , I am a Frondeur—not of Broussel ’ s party , nor of Blancmesnil ’ s , nor am I with Viole ; but with the Duc de Beaufort , the Ducs de Bouillon and d ’ Elbeuf ; with princes , not with presidents , councillors and low-born lawyers .
This and some dried fruits and a flask of Monte Pulciano , was the bill of fare .
A thick clump of trees and shrubs rose in the centre , and masked a portion of the front ; around this shrubbery two alleys , like two arms , extended right and left , and formed a carriage-drive from the iron gates to a double portico , on every step of which stood a porcelain vase , filled with flowers .
“ Well ? ” said Villefort .
Fourteen years had changed the worthy merchant , who , in his thirty-sixth year at the opening of this history , was now in his fiftieth ; his hair had turned white , time and sorrow had ploughed deep furrows on his brow , and his look , once so firm and penetrating , was now irresolute and wandering , as if he feared being forced to fix his attention on some particular thought or person .
This burden , almost as heavy as a world , which I had raised , and I had thought to bear to the end , was too great for my strength , and I was compelled to lay it down in the middle of my career .
“ I was thinking , my dear old friend , that when you were a musketeer you turned your thoughts incessantly to the church , and now that you are an abbé you are perpetually longing to be once more a musketeer. ” “ ’ Tis true ; man , as you know , ” said Aramis , “ is a strange animal , made up of contradictions .
Her hôtel was remarkably sumptuous , and while the most part of the English had quit , or were about to quit , France on account of the war , Milady had just been laying out much money upon her residence ; which proved that the general measure which drove the English from France did not affect her .
His assistant broke his leg last night beneath your majesty ’ s window—the cry we heard was his—and there is no executioner nearer at hand than Bristol. ” “ But the Comte de la Fere ? ” asked the king .
“ Nothing , ” replied Bonacieux , “ nothing .
“ Here , ” said Caderousse , “ draw me all that on the paper , my boy. ” Andrea took the pen with an imperceptible smile and began .
you are the chevalier ’ s prisoner. ” Raoul gave it up reluctantly ; Aramis instantly seized and read it .
Thus the poor sailor lives in the recollection of those who narrate his history ; his terrible story is recited in the chimney-corner , and a shudder is felt at the description of his transit through the air to be swallowed by the deep. ” Then , the count added aloud , “ Was his name ever known ? ” “ Oh , yes ; but only as No .
“ Most undoubtedly , ” said Planchet .
Anxious as you may suppose I was to behold and comfort my dear sister , I lost no time in hastening to Corsica , but when I arrived at Rogliano I found a house of mourning , the consequences of a scene so horrible that the neighbors remember and speak of it to this day .
The Count of Monte Cristo , ” continued the servant , “ begs these gentlemen ’ s permission to wait upon them as their neighbor , and he will be honored by an intimation of what time they will please to receive him. ” “ Faith , Franz , ” whispered Albert , “ there is not much to find fault with here. ” “ Tell the count , ” replied Franz , “ that we will do ourselves the pleasure of calling on him. ” The servant bowed and retired .
This introduction to Milady Clarik occupied the head of our Gascon greatly .
“ My dear sir , ” he said , hastily , “ do you know if the count is within ? ” “ Yes , your excellency ; he has this moment returned. ” “ Is he in bed ? ” “ I should say no. ” “ Then ring at his door , if you please , and request him to be so kind as to give me an audience. ” Signor Pastrini did as he was desired , and returning five minutes after , he said : “ The count awaits your excellency. ” Franz went along the corridor , and a servant introduced him to the count .
The child accepted joyfully .
His wife !
Carmela was precisely the age and figure of Teresa , and Teresa was as handsome as Carmela .
50211m “ Madame , ” said the count , “ it is no longer in my power to restore you to happiness , but I offer you consolation ; will you deign to accept it as coming from a friend ? ” “ I am , indeed , most wretched , ” replied Mercédès .
Villefort ran upstairs without saying a word .
I said in a loud voice that he was a prisoner , a friend of the Duc de Beaufort , who called for help .
One now and then I don ’ t say much about ; but seven in two days , I repeat , it is too many , it is far too many ! ” “ Therefore , sire , your Majesty sees that they are come , quite contrite and repentant , to offer you their excuses. ” “ Quite contrite and repentant !
I sailed for the Island of Elba , where I arrived the next day ; I ordered everybody to remain on board , and went on shore alone .
Morrel looked at his watch , which wanted a quarter to ten ; but soon the same clock he had already heard strike two or three times rectified the error by striking half-past nine .
“ Listen , ” said he to him .
The inspector asked if they had anything else to ask for .
See paragraph 1.E below .
“ Well , ” said Franz to Albert , “ do you know what is the best thing we can do ?
“ Will you dine with me ? ” asked Harrison of D ’ Artagnan .
As we pass from one room to another , I will open the windows to let you breathe. ” Monte Cristo had already seen the breakfast-room and the salon on the ground floor .
“ If that ’ s the case , ” said Mousqueton , with a learned air , “ take some nourishment. ” “ Do you call that nourishment ? ” said Blaisois , pointing to the barley bread and pot of beer upon the table .
I don ’ t know whether I ever told you that when I was at college I was rather—rather strong in Greek. ” “ He spoke the Romaic language , did he ? ” “ I think so. ” “ That settles it , ” murmured Franz .
0255m The draught produced a galvanic effect , a violent trembling pervaded the old man ’ s limbs , his eyes opened until it was fearful to gaze upon them , he heaved a sigh which resembled a shriek , and then his convulsed body returned gradually to its former immobility , the eyes remaining open .
The Parisian army had organized with the promptness characteristic of the bourgeois whenever they are moved by any sentiment whatever to disguise themselves as soldiers .
If you go on so , his Eminence will be forced to renew his company in three weeks , and I to put the edicts in force in all their rigor .
Besides , Germain was in the interests of the queen ; and if anything should happen , Mme .
I will repeat them , then ; and since he has chosen me as his interpreter , I will be faithful to the trust , and will not alter a word of his intentions. ” “ Oh , I am listening with the greatest impatience , ” replied the young man ; “ speak , I beg of you. ” Valentine cast down her eyes ; this was a good omen for Morrel , for he knew that nothing but happiness could have the power of thus overcoming Valentine .
He was so well wrapped up in his cloak that it would have been impossible to see his face even if the night had not been so dark as to render precaution superfluous ; nevertheless , the keen glance of Athos perceived at once it was not Rogers who stood before them .
There were caskets of diamonds , cashmere shawls , Valenciennes lace , English veils , and in fact all the tempting things , the bare mention of which makes the hearts of young girls bound with joy , and which is called the _corbeille_.22 Now , in passing through this room , Andrea proved himself not only to be clever and intelligent , but also provident , for he helped himself to the most valuable of the ornaments before him .
“ Do you know what he has done , this child ?
“ Besides , my lord must remember that Monsieur de Chavigny is governor of Vincennes , ” continued La Ramee , “ and that Monsieur de Chavigny is not friendly to Monsieur de Beaufort. ” “ Yes , but Monsieur de Chavigny is sometimes absent. ” “ When he is absent I am there. ” “ But when you leave him , for instance ? ” “ Oh !
1.F.2 .
Then another error seized me on seeing you in company with these gentlemen—I was afraid you were dangerously ill. ” The two men in black , who guessed D ’ Artagnan ’ s meaning , darted at him a glance which might have been thought threatening ; but D ’ Artagnan took no heed of it .
He related to Athos all that had passed , except the letter to M. de Wardes .
When they arrived at the Madeleine : “ Since we are out , ” said Beauchamp , “ let us call on M. de Monte Cristo ; he is admirably adapted to revive one ’ s spirits , because he never interrogates , and in my opinion those who ask no questions are the best comforters. ” “ Gladly , ” said Albert ; “ let us call—I love him. ” Chapter 85 .
“ Oh , oh ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , comprehending the slight frown of the Musketeer .
On recovering the use of their limbs and tongues they could , of course , tell nothing but what they knew—that they had been seized , stripped and bound .
1.F .
He was introduced .
There were but three hôtels in this part of the street ; and only two windows looking toward the road , one of which was in a pavilion parallel to that which Aramis occupied , the other belonging to Aramis himself .
Good God ! ” asked the poor woman , “ have I said anything that has wounded you ? ” “ No ; but the name struck me , because I also have known that gentleman , and it appeared strange to me to meet with a person who appears to know him well. ” “ Oh , yes , very well ; not only him , but some of his friends , Messieurs Porthos and Aramis ! ” “ Indeed !
“ Then , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ let us give the money to the lackeys , as Lord de Winter desired us to do. ” “ Yes , ” said Athos ; “ let us give the money to the lackeys—not to our lackeys , but to the lackeys of the Englishmen. ” Athos took the purse , and threw it into the hand of the coachman .
I thought you had softened .
D ’ Artagnan wished that answer might be prompt and favorable ; and having again recommended Porthos to the care of Mousqueton , and paid his bill to the host , he resumed his route with Planchet , already relieved of one of his led horses .
He remembered that the old association of musketeers was composed of four persons .
Athos pointed to the bastion .
“ The one I have hired for you. ” “ Where will it take me ? ” “ Where you please , after you have put me on shore at Portsmouth. ” “ What are you going to do at Portsmouth ? ” asked Milady .
Franz and Albert descended , the carriage approached the palace ; their excellencies stretched their legs along the seats ; the _cicerone_ sprang into the seat behind .
The man whom he had seen seated on a fence had got down , and was still pacing the street ; but , strange as it appeared , he cared not for those who might pass from the avenue of the Champs-Élysées or by the Faubourg Saint-Honoré ; his attention was engrossed with what was passing at the count ’ s , and his only aim appeared to be to discern every movement in the dressing-room .
“ You are at home , ” said he .
The doctors are embalming the corpse , and when it is ready it will be placed in a lighted chapel. ” “ Mockery , ” muttered Athos , savagely ; “ royal honors to one whom they have murdered ! ” “ Well , cheer up ! ” said a loud voice from the staircase , which Porthos had just mounted .
Had we escaped before my attack of catalepsy , I should have conducted you to Monte Cristo ; now , ” he added , with a sigh , “ it is you who will conduct me thither .
In the bedroom in which this passage ended , Bernouin encountered Madame de Beauvais , like himself intrusted with the secret of these subterranean love affairs ; and Madame de Beauvais undertook to prepare Anne of Austria , who was in her oratory with the young king , Louis XIV. , to receive the cardinal .
Blaisois seeing Bazin in clerical guise , was a little discomposed at his denials and wanted to pass at all risks , believing too , that the man with whom he had to do was endowed with the virtues of his cloth , namely , patience and Christian charity .
“ But if I were wrong—— ” “ I watched you during the whole scene of that challenge yesterday ; I have been thinking of your firmness all night , and I said to myself that justice must be on your side , or man ’ s countenance is no longer to be relied on. ” “ But , Morrel , Albert is your friend ? ” “ Simply an acquaintance , sir. ” “ You met on the same day you first saw me ? ” “ Yes , that is true ; but I should not have recollected it if you had not reminded me. ” “ Thank you , Morrel. ” Then ringing the bell once , “ Look. ” said he to Ali , who came immediately , “ take that to my solicitor .
I possess nearly 50,000 livres in right of my mother ; my grandfather and my grandmother , the Marquis and Marquise de Saint-Méran , will leave me as much , and M. Noirtier evidently intends making me his heir .
What I think of is , that we have crossed swords as enemies .
“ Why do you not join our party , my dear Beauchamp ?
The three cavaliers continued their road on full gallop .
Bazin stretched his arms , rubbed his eyes , and tried to go to sleep again .
He again beheld the dull light vainly endeavoring to penetrate the narrow opening .
But stop !
Really impossible for a minister who has an office , agents , spies , and fifteen hundred thousand francs for secret service money , to know what is going on at sixty leagues from the coast of France !
“ Are you asleep , that you don ’ t answer when I ring ? ” And D ’ Artagnan heard the door of communication opened violently .
Noirtier made a sign that she was to do so .
“ You have two or three times mentioned a M. Morrel , ” he said ; “ who was he ? ” “ The owner of the _Pharaon_ and patron of Dantès. ” “ And what part did he play in this sad drama ? ” inquired the abbé .
In France , my dear sir , half such a piece of effrontery as that would cause you to be quickly despatched to Toulon for five years , for change of air. ” “ Will you be good enough to explain your meaning ? ” said the major , endeavoring as much as possible to assume an air of the greatest majesty .
one would think it had been placed here on purpose. ” “ Get on it ; that ’ s it , friend. ” And D ’ Artagnan coughed .
Dantès was so exhausted that the exclamation of joy he uttered was mistaken for a sigh .
I am cold , I am hungry .
He saw in fancy the burial of his father , and the marriage of Mercédès .
The procureur , without going to see either his wife or his daughter , went at once to his study , and , offering the young man a chair : “ M .
Porthos seized his opportunity , caught the next soldier by his neck , gagged him and pushed him like a mummy through the bars into the room , and entered after him .
You have continued your course of villany ; you have robbed—you have assassinated. ” “ Well , I should say !
Can it , gentlemen ? ” added the young man , turning to the two Guards , whom he introduced to his friends .
The note indicated neither the street nor the number of the house where the meeting was to be held ; it bore no signature , but it announced to the general that someone would call for him if he would be ready at nine o ’ clock .
Since I have arrived at years of discretion and become my own master , I have been constantly seeking him , but all in vain .
Noirtier watched the expression of each one , and preserved his dignified and commanding attitude .
The old patron , who was obliged to sail in the morning in order to land his cargo on the frontiers of Piedmont and France , between Nice and Fréjus , urged Dantès to try and rise .
Act prudently. ” “ Oh , do not fear ; besides , you will accompany me .
Suddenly two dark forms seemed to separate from the mass , advanced , grew in size , and as they loomed up larger and larger , assumed the appearance of two horsemen .
“ Well , ” said Beauchamp , “ we shall see our friend ! ” “ Yes , indeed ! ” replied Debray .
I have not tried to discover her other name. ” “ Kitty ! ” cried Milady .
The sight of the masked man gave rise to a prolonged sensation .
Morrel obeyed ; guided by Valentine , he had learned how to understand the old man quickly .
Chapter III .
It is twenty years since I saw them , and yet whenever I have seen the king in danger I have thought of them. ” “ And these men were your friends ? ” “ One of them held my life in his hands and gave it to me .
hey !
50123m “ Yes , I think I saw him pass ; but pray , call Emmanuel. ” “ Excuse me , madame , but I must go up to Maximilian ’ s room this instant , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ I have something of the greatest importance to tell him. ” “ Go , then , ” she said with a charming smile , which accompanied him until he had disappeared .
He was very taciturn , this worthy signor .
Felton recognized it also , and made a step toward the door .
Now , this is the first part of this precious manuscript which we offer to our readers , restoring it to the title which belongs to it , and entering into an engagement that if ( of which we have no doubt ) this first part should obtain the success it merits , we will publish the second immediately .
“ Can you not tell me his name ? ” At the moment a great jingling of spurs was heard on the stairs .
On the doorsteps d ’ Avrigny met the cousin whom Villefort had mentioned , a personage as insignificant in our story as in the world he occupied—one of those beings designed from their birth to make themselves useful to others .
As far as you yourself are concerned , I see but one point in which you are really guilty .
Edmond listened , and the sound became more and more distinct .
Then the officer began to pass in review all the people , one after the other , and stopping when he came to Milady , surveyed her very closely , but without addressing a single word to her .
“ Then you are ignorant of what has become of your wife since her flight. ” “ Absolutely , monseigneur ; but she has most likely returned to the Louvre. ” “ At one o ’ clock this morning she had not returned. ” “ My God !
Therefore let us separate .
Aramis calmly drew his sword , which he had carried between his teeth as he swam .
De Winter made the grooms who carried the arms and the porters with the luggage descend first and was about to follow them .
I furnished myself with a light. ” “ You did ?
A PROCURATOR ’ S DINNER However brilliant had been the part played by Porthos in the duel , it had not made him forget the dinner of the procurator ’ s wife .
He could not see it , but he _felt_ its presence .
Mazarin , still sombre and pensive , permitted himself to be dragged along in this way ; it looked a race of phantoms .
“ You see , therefore , ” continued the cardinal , perceiving D ’ Artagnan ’ s composure , “ that , as I have told you , the welfare of the state is placed in your hands. ” “ Yes , my lord , and I feel the whole responsibility of such a charge. ” “ You accept , however ? ” “ I always accept. ” “ Do you think the thing possible ? ” “ Everything is possible. ” “ Shall you be attacked on the road ? ” “ Probably. ” “ And what will you do in that case ? ” “ I shall pass through those who attack me. ” “ And suppose you can not pass through them ? ” “ So much the worse for them ; I shall pass over them. ” “ And you will place the king and queen in safety also , at Saint Germain ? ” “ Yes. ” “ On your life ? ” “ On my life. ” “ You are a hero , my friend , ” said Mazarin , gazing at the musketeer with admiration .
No part of the programme differed , —the names of the condemned persons , their crimes , and mode of punishment , all agreed with his previous information .
“ In the name of heaven ! ” cried he , “ listen to me ; I have been waiting for someone who has not come .
The two women looked at this person whose presence they had entirely forgotten , and retired ; but , as she left the apartment , Julie gave the stranger a supplicating glance , to which he replied by a smile that an indifferent spectator would have been surprised to see on his stern features .
“ What in the devil does he say ? ” asked the prince .
I am always prepared to go , only , as you know , I never do go , and perhaps shall go this time as little as before. ” “ In short , if I go , will you go too ? ” “ I will try. ” “ You torment me , Giulio , with your fears ; and what are you afraid of , then ? ” “ Of many things. ” “ What are they ? ” Mazarin ’ s face , smiling as it was , became clouded .
Well , ” continued the count , in a tone that made Franz shudder , “ this young gentleman is one of _my friends_—this young gentleman lodges in the same hotel as myself—this young gentleman has been up and down the Corso for eight hours in my private carriage , and yet , I repeat to you , you have carried him off , and conveyed him hither , and , ” added the count , taking the letter from his pocket , “ you have set a ransom on him , as if he were an utter stranger. ” “ Why did you not tell me all this—you ? ” inquired the brigand chief , turning towards his men , who all retreated before his look .
Madame de Morcerf did not lose sight of Monte Cristo ; she saw that he took nothing , and even noticed his gesture of refusal .
But no matter ; we must trust in God. ” As soon as the plank was withdrawn the captain took his place at the tiller and made a sign to one of the sailors , who , boat-hook in hand , began to push out from the labyrinth of boats in which they were involved .
“ Ah , he is one who fears neither God nor Satan , they say , and would at any time run fifty leagues out of his course to do a poor devil a service. ” 20093m “ But such services as these might involve him with the authorities of the country in which he practices this kind of philanthropy , ” said Franz .
I fear I shall be forced to suspend payment. ” “ Have you no friends who could assist you ? ” Morrel smiled mournfully .
But what is the use of teasing me with going all over that again ? ” “ Ah , you are only one-and-twenty , and can forget the past ; I am fifty , and am obliged to recollect it .
whom ? ” “ The man we are seeking. ” “ It seems , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that whilst I thought I was coming to Noisy I have entered , without suspecting it , into the kingdom of mysteries. ” “ Come , ” replied the same lofty tone , “ answer !
I returned to the seminary .
Linen and wine are both being warmed ; come. ” The young men had no objection to this proposition ; on the contrary , they thought it very timely .
“ Very rich , do you think ? ” replied the young man .
The Bourbons left him quietly enough at the Catalans , but Napoleon returned , a special levy was made , and Fernand was compelled to join .
They broke open the doors and searched the dwelling , but in vain .
If I am free , why these bars and these doors ?
His whiskers cut off , Noirtier gave another turn to his hair ; took , instead of his black cravat , a colored neckerchief which lay at the top of an open portmanteau ; put on , in lieu of his blue and high-buttoned frock-coat , a coat of Villefort ’ s of dark brown , and cut away in front ; tried on before the glass a narrow-brimmed hat of his son ’ s , which appeared to fit him perfectly , and , leaving his cane in the corner where he had deposited it , he took up a small bamboo switch , cut the air with it once or twice , and walked about with that easy swagger which was one of his principal characteristics .
“ Your mother—your sister !
At the door he met the commissary of police , who was waiting for him .
The Will Chapter 60 .
The motive given for all the taxes summarily imposed and to which the parliament had made opposition , was the necessity of sustaining the honor of France and the uncertain hope of beating the enemy .
Chapter XLIX .
At that moment he thought of the trees , upon whose leaves the light still shone ; and as one of them drooped over the road , he thought that from its branches he might get a glimpse of the interior of the pavilion .
One of the two Guardsmen was engaged that evening , and another the next , so the meeting was fixed for the day after that .
It was true , and Raoul was convinced that some accident had happened and that a man was drowning ; he gave his horse its head , struck his spurs into its sides , and the animal , urged by pain and feeling that he had space open before him , bounded over a kind of paling which inclosed the landing place , and fell into the river , scattering to a distance waves of white froth .
She had , in her first marriage—I don ’ t think , D ’ Artagnan , I am telling you anything new—married a lawyer ; they thought that ‘ nauseous ; ’ you can understand that ’ s a word bad enough to make one kill thirty thousand men .
The two coffins were placed on trestles previously prepared for their reception in the right-hand crypt belonging to the Saint-Méran family .
Private misfortunes must never be allowed to interfere with business. ” “ Be easy on that score , M. Morrel ; but do you think we shall be permitted to see our poor Edmond ? ” “ I will let you know that directly I have seen M. de Villefort , whom I shall endeavor to interest in Edmond ’ s favor .
A man can easily be put out of the way there , then ; it is , indeed , the Bagdad and Bassora of the _Thousand and One Nights_ .
The Guards of the cardinal , perceiving his youth and that he did not belong to the corps , invited him to retire before they attacked. ” “ So you may plainly see , Tréville , ” interrupted the king , “ it was they who attacked ? ” “ That is true , sire ; there can be no more doubt on that head .
“ Well ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Well , if you know them , you know that they are good and free companions .
Have you cords to bind him with and a gag to stop his mouth ? ’ “ ‘ We have. ’ “ ‘ Remember that he will most likely be disguised as a horseman. ’ “ ‘ Yes , yes , my lord ; don ’ t be uneasy. ’ “ ‘ Besides , I shall be there. ’ “ ‘ You will assure us that justice—— ’ “ ‘ Yes , yes !
When the procession reached the palace , loud cries of “ Long live their majesties ! ” resounded .
“ Well , ” asked Anne of Austria , when D ’ Artagnan reappeared , “ what does it mean ? ” “ It means , madame , that the report has spread that the queen has left the Palais Royal , carrying off the king , and the people ask to have proof to the contrary , or threaten to demolish the Palais Royal. ” “ Oh , this time it is too much ! ” exclaimed the queen , “ and I will prove to them I have not left. ” D ’ Artagnan saw from the expression of the queen ’ s face that she was about to issue some violent command .
He let off his fire at but four paces .
Name to me such of your workmen as you need , and point out the tools they must bring. ” The goldsmith knew the duke .
While he was speaking , Albert had heard the report of two or three pistol-shots .
“ He resides in a quiet quarter , ” continued Aramis ; “ his tastes and his profession require it .
The cabman joyfully pocketed the sum , and turned back on his road to Paris .
The duke opened the purse and wanted to empty it into Grimaud ’ s hands , but Grimaud shook his head .
“ Does he still live ? ” inquired the innkeeper .
To the scaffold with the poisoner—to the scaffold !
I had , at the moment of being ordained , a little difficulty with—But that would not interest you , and I am taking up your valuable time. ” “ Not at all ; it interests me very much , ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ and at this moment I have absolutely nothing to do. ” “ Yes , but I have my breviary to repeat , ” answered Aramis ; “ then some verses to compose , which Madame d ’ Aiguillon begged of me .
“ My mistress above all , ” repeated he , mechanically ; “ and why her rather than another ? ” “ Because a mistress is one of the cardinal ’ s favorite means ; he has not one that is more expeditious .
Aramis said that as these sorts of affairs were mysterious , it was better not to fathom them .
You are free , you leave the count ’ s house , and you take your mother to your home ; but reflect , Albert , you owe her more than your poor noble heart can pay her .
“ I tell you what , M. Franz , ” cried Albert , “ you deserve to be called out for such a misgiving and incredulous glance as that you were pleased to bestow on me just now. ” “ And I promise to give you the satisfaction of a gentleman if your scheme turns out as ingenious as you assert. ” “ Well , then , hearken to me. ” “ I listen. ” “ You agree , do you not , that obtaining a carriage is out of the question ? ” “ I do. ” “ Neither can we procure horses ? ” “ True ; we have offered any sum , but have failed. ” “ Well , now , what do you say to a cart ?
As we had no doctor on board , and he was so anxious to arrive at Elba , that he would not touch at any other port , his disorder rose to such a height , that at the end of the third day , feeling he was dying , he called me to him .
“ She is at the ball , as you know , since she came to say good-bye to you in full dress. ” Noirtier again closed his left eye .
The king went straight to him .
“ Here is what you are looking for , ” he said .
Milady asked some questions about the carriage .
Moreover , do not alarm yourself , Morrel ; this weakness , if it is such , is betrayed to you alone .
“ My dear La Ramee , ” said the duke , “ you are the only man to turn such faultless compliments. ” “ No , my lord duke , ” replied La Ramee , in the fullness of his heart ; “ I say what I think ; there is no compliment in what I say to you—— ” “ Then you are attached to me ? ” asked the duke .
As for me , ” he added , with one of those singular smiles which did not escape the young man , “ when I have completed my affairs in Paris , I shall go and die in the East ; and should you wish to see me again , you must seek me at Cairo , Bagdad , or Ispahan. ” 20087m “ _Ma foi_ , ” said Franz , “ it would be the easiest thing in the world ; for I feel eagle ’ s wings springing out at my shoulders , and with those wings I could make a tour of the world in four-and-twenty hours. ” “ Ah , yes , the hashish is beginning its work .
“ You are good and faithful servants. ” Athos sprang from his horse , gave the bridle to Grimaud , and advanced toward the window , after having made a sign to the rest of the troop to go toward the door .
“ You are born to good fortune , ” said Franz , as he returned the letter .
I went to work .
In the meantime , as we have said , Mazarin was in his closet , putting his affairs in order .
ah , me !
“ Yes , ” continued the cardinal .
The Accusation M. d ’ Avrigny soon restored the magistrate to consciousness , who had looked like a second corpse in that chamber of death .
There are here no procurators who regulate successions beforehand .
Everyone , therefore , ran to the court ; some to witness the sight , others to comment upon it .
“ Who are you ? ” asked the man .
M. Bertuccio , lay covers for three. ” He then took Franz ’ s tablets out of his hand .
“ Gentlemen , ” said Athos , who had assumed the command of the expedition , “ while Grimaud spreads the table , let us begin by collecting the guns and cartridges together .
“ If I thought the fellow knew me by my name I would be rebaptized , for fear it might be thought I knew him. ” “ He knows you better by your actions than your name ; he is quite aware that there are two gentlemen who greatly aided the escape of Monsieur de Beaufort , and he has instigated an active search for them , I can answer for it. ” “ By whom ? ” “ By me ; and this morning he sent for me to ask me if I had obtained any information. ” “ And what did you reply ? ” “ That I had none as yet ; but that I was to dine to-day with two gentlemen , who would be able to give me some. ” “ You told him that ? ” said Porthos , a broad smile spreading over his honest face .
When they arrived at the antechamber , above the door was visible a shield , which , by its rich ornaments and its harmony with the rest of the furniture , indicated the importance the owner attached to this blazon .
I am enormously anxious to finish my night at the Duke of Bracciano ’ s. ” They found the carriage where they had left it .
“ I love most fondly—I love madly—I love as a man who would give his life-blood to spare her a tear—I love Valentine de Villefort , who is being murdered at this moment !
It was this idea that had brought Dantès back to the circular rock .
“ Where do you wish to be taken ? ” asked the president.— “ Anywhere out of your presence , ” replied M. d ’ Épinay .
Whole hours sometimes passed while Faria was giving instructions to Dantès , —instructions which were to serve him when he was at liberty .
“ You have seen the man who desired to speak with you from your friend ? ” he asked of Franz .
You are Madame Bonacieux ! ” The young woman drew back , filled with surprise and terror .
“ It was five o ’ clock in the afternoon ; I ascended into the red room , and waited for night .
If he demands my daughter let him fix the day—declare his conditions ; in short , let us either understand each other , or quarrel .
for you told me your father desired the marriage. ” “ It is my mother who dissents ; she has a clear and penetrating judgment , and does not smile on the proposed union .
You know we can not yet pronounce him guilty. ” “ He is in safe custody , ” answered Villefort ; “ and rely upon it , if the letter is found , he will not be likely to be trusted abroad again , unless he goes forth under the especial protection of the headsman. ” “ And where is the unfortunate being ? ” asked Renée .
My commands are ordinarily short , clear , and precise ; and I would rather be obliged to repeat my words twice , or even three times , than they should be misunderstood .
But Peppino , instead of answering , threw himself on his knees , seized the count ’ s hand , and covered it with kisses .
He had tried his strength to the utmost .
And what did the cuistre [ pettifogger ] say about me ? ” “ I admit the word , monseigneur , because it rhymes with ministre [ minister ] .
While the rest of the company were discussing the approaching marriage of Mademoiselle Danglars , I was reading the paper to my grandfather ; but when I came to the paragraph about you , although I had done nothing else but read it over to myself all the morning ( you know you had told me all about it the previous evening ) , I felt so happy , and yet so nervous , at the idea of speaking your name aloud , and before so many people , that I really think I should have passed it over , but for the fear that my doing so might create suspicions as to the cause of my silence ; so I summoned up all my courage , and read it as firmly and as steadily as I could. ” 30059m “ Dear Valentine ! ” “ Well , would you believe it ?
Monk or priest , it matters not , provided only that he has received from holy church the power of absolving in articulo mortis. ” “ Monsieur d ’ Arminges , ” said De Guiche , “ remain beside this unfortunate man and see that he is removed as gently as possible .
“ Do you know his house at Auteuil ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ What do you know respecting it ? ” “ Do you wish to know why he bought it ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The count is a speculator , who will certainly ruin himself in experiments .
He cast his eyes around him and saw a man carrying off Teresa , as Nessus , the centaur , carried Deianira .
When Mazarin ceased speaking he said to Porthos in a low tone : “ Never tell Mazarin that I understand Spanish , or I am a lost man and you are also. ” “ All right , ” said Porthos . )
Then arrive a crowd of policemen and constables .
Morrel tormented his so effectually that they struck eight at half-past six .
He glanced around , looked in the bed , shook the curtains , opened the closets , and finally stopped at the chimney .
He turned his head , looked around him , and saw no one ; but the sound was repeated distinctly enough to convince him of its reality .
D ’ Artagnan already fancied himself , so rapid is the flight of our dreams upon the wings of imagination , accosted by a messenger from the young woman , who brought him some billet appointing a meeting , a gold chain , or a diamond .
He is coming to play with us this evening. ” “ Oho ! ” said Porthos , his eyes glistening at the news .
“ Follow me , ” said an officer , who came up behind the guards .
After a second , a slight cloud of smoke was seen at the stern of the vessel , which rose gracefully as it expanded in the air , and then Franz heard a slight report .
The man whom Athos had come so far to seek , and whom he had found with so much trouble , introduced him into his laboratory , where he was engaged in fastening together with iron wire the dry bones of a skeleton .
Elssler was dancing in _Le Diable boiteux_ ; the Greek princess was in ecstasies .
Athos sipped the last bottle of his Spanish wine .
She would , indeed , have found it impossible to repeat what had been said the last few minutes , when suddenly Madame Danglars ’ hand , pressed on her arm , aroused her from her lethargy .
Anne of Austria believed that Louis XIII .
The terrible idea that he was writing his will flashed across her ; she shuddered , and yet had not strength to utter a word .
It is a misfortune , and government owes nothing to his family .
And he held out to the concierge the notary ’ s order .
“ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ let us take the opposite direction ; if we follow the escort we shall find everything devoured and die of hunger .
A banker must , you know , be a slave to his promise. ” And Danglars sighed as M. Cavalcanti had done half an hour before .
Be satisfied , ” said D ’ Artagnan , laughing , “ Porthos will pay you with the money of the Duchess Coquenard. ” “ Oh , monsieur , procurator ’ s wife or duchess , if she will but loosen her pursestrings , it will be all the same ; but she positively answered that she was tired of the exigencies and infidelities of Monsieur Porthos , and that she would not send him a denier. ” “ And did you convey this answer to your guest ? ” “ We took good care not to do that ; he would have found in what fashion we had executed his commission. ” “ So that he still expects his money ? ” “ Oh , Lord , yes , monsieur !
All we have got to do is , to keep our own counsel , and remain perfectly quiet , not breathing a word to any living soul ; and you will see that the storm will pass away without in the least affecting us. ” “ Amen ! ” responded Caderousse , waving his hand in token of adieu to Danglars , and bending his steps towards the Allées de Meilhan , moving his head to and fro , and muttering as he went , after the manner of one whose mind was overcharged with one absorbing idea .
“ And now to table , ” said Athos .
Before the sleeping king they will be mute , gentle and timid as lambs. ” “ Go , Laporte , ” said the queen .
That same night the general was to go over to the English .
“ What are your grandmother ’ s symptoms ? ” “ An extreme nervous excitement and a strangely agitated sleep ; she fancied this morning in her sleep that her soul was hovering above her body , which she at the same time watched .
He seemed to see before him the salvation of his administration and of the kingdom , sculptured in flesh and bone .
“ Have you seen my mother ? ” asked Albert .
Dantès drew back , and gazed on the abbé with a sensation almost amounting to terror .
“ At your service , sir , ” said Planchet , overwhelmed with joy ; “ if I were still capable of serving you. ” “ Perhaps so , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
‘ You at Marseilles ? ’ — ‘ Yes , ’ says he .
“ Now that I have the word of Athos I can set out. ” D ’ Artagnan started alone on his journey , without other escort than his sword , and with a simple passport from Mazarin to secure his admission to the queen ’ s presence .
Pardon my frankness , dear friend .
Which was the real delinquent ? ” “ Both , sir ; one with a letter , and the other put it in the post. ” “ And where was this letter written ? ” “ At La Réserve , the day before the betrothal feast. ” “ ’ Twas so , then— ’ twas so , then , ” murmured the abbé .
At bottom the character of M. Bonacieux was one of profound selfishness mixed with sordid avarice , the whole seasoned with extreme cowardice .
It was indeed for him that they were there .
But don ’ t sleep as you do all the time ; nothing dulls the intellect like sleep .
Monsieur de Chavigny , who at heart detested the cardinal , took pains to tell the story to two or three friends , who put it into immediate circulation .
Albert placed the fresh bouquet in his button-hole , but he kept the faded one in his hand ; and when he again met the calash , he raised it to his lips , an action which seemed greatly to amuse not only the fair lady who had thrown it , but her joyous companions also .
Then your father ought to have met with you on the road , for it is exactly the same route which he himself took , and that is how we have been able to trace your journey to this place. ” “ But , ” said Andrea , “ if my father had met me , I doubt if he would have recognized me ; I must be somewhat altered since he last saw me. ” “ Oh , the voice of nature , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ It is well , ” said Monte Cristo .
My God , my dear host , tell me if anything has happened to him ? ” “ Your Lordship must have observed that he could not continue his journey. ” “ Why , to be sure , he promised to rejoin us , and we have seen nothing of him. ” “ He has done us the honor to remain here. ” “ What , he had done you the honor to remain here ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , in this house ; and we are even a little uneasy— ” “ On what account ? ” “ Of certain expenses he has contracted. ” “ Well , but whatever expenses he may have incurred , I am sure he is in a condition to pay them. ” “ Ah , monsieur , you infuse genuine balm into my blood .
The religion I serve , the God I adore , were blasphemed because I called upon that religion and that God , but still I resisted .
One could comprehend the necessity of the cold and the urgency of the cloak .
Preoccupied as Madame Danglars had been with the object of her visit , the treatment she had received from these underlings appeared to her so insulting , that she began by complaining of it .
“ Well , ” said Franz to him ; “ there is the beginning of an adventure. ” “ Laugh if you please—I really think so .
Look at his uniform , Monsieur Commissary , look at his uniform ! ” “ That ’ s true , ” murmured the commissary ; “ _pardieu_ , that ’ s true. ” At this moment the door was opened quickly , and a messenger , introduced by one of the gatekeepers of the Bastille , gave a letter to the commissary .
The same day they came for me and took me to the Bastile .
“ Then , here ’ s to our next merry meeting ! ” “ Adieu , dear captain , ” said Porthos , “ I shall always be happy to welcome you to my barony. ” “ Yes , yes , when the campaign is over , ” replied the Gascon .
Speak , then , without reserve , as without hatred ; tell the truth , the whole truth ; I do not know , never may know , the persons of whom you are about to speak ; besides , I am an Italian , and not a Frenchman , and belong to God , and not to man , and I shall shortly retire to my convent , which I have only quitted to fulfil the last wishes of a dying man. ” This positive assurance seemed to give Caderousse a little courage .
D ’ Artagnan quietly pushed him in again , and by the light of a lamp on the staircase made him ascend the steps backward one by one , keeping his eyes all the time on Mordaunt ’ s hands , who , however , knowing that it was useless , attempted no resistance .
“ Singular man ! ” muttered Gondy , taking his hat to go away ; but on turning around he saw the beggar between him and the door .
Aramis could not in his jealousy avoid being pleased at the coadjutor ’ s misfortune , and was about to utter some bon mot more witty than correct , when Athos stopped him .
D ’ Artagnan therefore returned to the Rue Férou .
An event took place in the Church of St. Louis au Marais .
Raoul turned toward the side whence the cry had sounded , and shaded his eyes from the glare of the setting sun with his hand .
“ Upon my word you would make Caesar afraid. ” “ The matter is , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ that I can see upon this pier neither inspector nor sentinel nor exciseman. ” “ And you complain of that ! ” said Porthos .
He had not even the means for making a possible settlement on account .
Besides , it is important , ” added he in a low tone , “ that I should remain in Paris just now to watch the paper. ” “ Ah , you are a good and an excellent friend , ” said Albert ; “ yes , you are right ; watch , watch , Beauchamp , and try to discover the enemy who made this disclosure. ” Albert and Beauchamp parted , the last pressure of their hands expressing what their tongues could not before a stranger .
“ But how can I pay them ? ” “ Oh , nothing easier ; you have an account open with Messrs. Thomson & French , Via dei Banchi , Rome ; give me a draft for 4,998 louis on these gentlemen , and our banker shall take it. ” Danglars thought it as well to comply with a good grace , so he took the pen , ink , and paper Peppino offered him , wrote the draft , and signed it .
I regret I did not inform you sooner of this circumstance. ” “ You have truly , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , bowing again , “ a courtesy , for which , I assure you , I am very grateful. ” “ You confuse me , ” replied Athos , with his gentlemanly air ; “ let us talk of something else , if you please .
She should have wanted nothing. ” “ Have you ever seen the queen of England ? ” inquired D ’ Artagnan .
You understand , my dear girl , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ she is the wife of that frightful baboon you saw at the door as you came in. ” “ Oh , my God !
A silent party soon drew near to the same enclosure , entered , and joined the Musketeers .
Then the inconvenience became distress .
It had long been an object of ambition for Porthos .
“ You do not answer , madame ! ” exclaimed the terrible interrogator .
D ’ Artagnan alone did not seem convinced .
Apropos !
The conversation took place in English—a language which D ’ Artagnan could not understand ; but by the accent the young man plainly saw that the beautiful Englishwoman was in a great rage .
Come and converse with us for just five minutes , sword in hand , upon this deserted terrace. ” “ One moment , gentlemen , ” cried Flamarens .
If not , why , there would be no promotion ; and since you assure me that the cargo—— ” “ Is all safe and sound , M. Morrel , take my word for it ; and I advise you not to take 25,000 francs for the profits of the voyage. ” Then , as they were just passing the Round Tower , the young man shouted : “ Stand by there to lower the topsails and jib ; brail up the spanker ! ” The order was executed as promptly as it would have been on board a man-of-war .
But there is the cardinal always at hand , who does not leave me a moment ’ s repose ; who talks to me about Spain , who talks to me about Austria , who talks to me about England !
“ But do you see to what you are exposing yourself ? ” said the baroness .
It may be supposed that his desire to hear the conversation was augmented by this discovery .
Another blow full upon his forehead at the same moment brought him to the ground , covered with blood and almost fainting .
He had formed his resolution .
“ Monsieur le comte , ” said the duchess , giving him a letter , “ here is what I promised you ; our young friend will be extremely well received. ” “ Madame , he is very happy in owing any obligation to you. ” “ You have no reason to envy him on that score , for I owe to you the pleasure of knowing him , ” replied the witty woman , with a smile which recalled Marie Michon to Aramis and to Athos .
“ Draw nearer , Penelon , ” said the young man , “ and tell us all about it. ” An old seaman , bronzed by the tropical sun , advanced , twirling the remains of a hat between his hands .
Really , honest men are not so scarce as I thought. ” “ Don ’ t be in a hurry to weave crowns for our Scotchman .
However , as if fate resolved on depriving the prisoners of their last chance , and making them understand that they were condemned to perpetual imprisonment , a new misfortune befell them ; the gallery on the sea side , which had long been in ruins , was rebuilt .
There , as in every spot where Monte Cristo stopped , if but for two days , luxury abounded and life went on with the utmost ease .
Until then you will not see me .
The Englishman appeared to reflect a moment , and then said , “ From which it would appear , sir , that this credit inspires you with considerable apprehension ? ” “ To tell you the truth , I consider it lost. ” “ Well , then , I will buy it of you ! ” “ You ? ” “ Yes , I ! ” “ But at a tremendous discount , of course ? ” “ No , for two hundred thousand francs .
Danglars was balancing his monthly accounts , and it was perhaps not the most favorable moment for finding him in his best humor .
“ Yes , ” replied M. de Boville ; “ I myself had occasion to see this man in 1816 or 1817 , and we could only go into his dungeon with a file of soldiers .
“ There are the fifty louis , i ’ faith , ” said Aramis , emptying the purse on the table , all bearing the effigy of Louis XIII .
On the other side of the dungeon he perceived an inscription , the white letters of which were still visible on the green wall : “ ‘ _Oh , God ! _ ’ ” he read , “ ‘ _preserve my memory ! _ ’ ” “ Oh , yes , ” he cried , “ that was my only prayer at last ; I no longer begged for liberty , but memory ; I dreaded to become mad and forgetful .
“ And you think that your wife— ” “ Has returned to the Louvre. ” “ Without speaking to anyone but yourself ? ” “ I am sure of it. ” “ That is an important point , do you understand ? ” “ Then the news I brought you is of value ? ” “ The greatest , my dear Bonacieux ; I don ’ t conceal this from you. ” “ Then the cardinal will be pleased with me ? ” “ I have no doubt of it. ” “ The great cardinal ! ” “ Are you sure , in her conversation with you , that your wife mentioned no names ? ” “ I think not. ” “ She did not name Madame de Chevreuse , the Duke of Buckingham , or Madame de Vernet ? ” “ No ; she only told me she wished to send me to London to serve the interests of an illustrious personage. ” “ The traitor ! ” murmured Mme .
If the league which threatened France triumphed , all his influence would be lost .
He was thinking of these matters when Porthos summoned him to dinner .
From the time of his arrival in Paris , he had been mixed up with public affairs ; but his own private affairs had made no great progress , either in love or fortune .
“ If I had anything by means of which I could inflate the lungs , ” said d ’ Avrigny , looking around him , “ perhaps I might prevent suffocation .
“ Nearly ten minutes passed ; I heard no other noise but the beating of my own heart .
This strange event aroused great wonder and curiosity in the neighborhood of the Allées de Meilhan , and a multitude of theories were afloat , none of which was anywhere near the truth .
“ Poor Athos ! ” said he ; “ he will never guess what all this means .
“ And the cards I ordered to be engraved as soon as you knew the number of the house ? ” “ Your excellency , it is done already .
absorbed all the smaller stars of his court in his own vast radiance ; but his father , a sun _pluribus impar_ , left his personal splendor to each of his favorites , his individual value to each of his courtiers .
He fancied he heard the sound of a piece of furniture being removed .
“ So much the better—so much the better !
Poor Edward is as much M. Noirtier ’ s grandchild as Valentine , and yet , if she had not been going to marry M. Franz , M. Noirtier would have left her all his money ; and supposing Valentine to be disinherited by her grandfather , she will still be three times richer than he. ” The count listened and said no more .
A miracle of heaven replaced me on the throne of my fathers after five-and-twenty years of exile .
“ Bertuccio , ” said he , “ give fifty-five thousand francs to monsieur. ” The steward left the room with a faltering step , and returned with a bundle of bank-notes , which the notary counted like a man who never gives a receipt for money until after he is sure it is all there .
you would follow the escort ? ” exclaimed Porthos , in dismay .
Athos ! ” muttered D ’ Artagnan ; “ you think of every one ; you are indeed a nobleman !
“ Really , pray tell me all about it , for it must be interesting. ” “ Father , you have heard speak of a certain Bonapartist club in the Rue Saint-Jacques ? ” “ No .
Scarcely had he entered the hall when he glanced at the whole body of magistrates and assistants ; his eye rested longer on the president , and still more so on the king ’ s attorney .
“ And have you done all that is possible , father , to meet this disastrous result ? ” asked the young man , after a moment ’ s pause .
At this moment the door was opened , and having questioned the servant the officer learned that Master Broussel was at home and at dinner .
He thought himself strong enough , for he mistook fever for energy .
He was received in triumph , as if he came from conquering an enemy and not Frenchmen .
You have already tried the power of your seductions upon many men , and unfortunately you have always succeeded ; but I give you leave to try them upon this one .
He was an Irishman—one of the most skillful of his craft , and who himself confessed that he gained a hundred thousand livres a year by the Duke of Buckingham .
“ I know very well that during the last four or five years misfortune has seemed to pursue M. Morrel .
Suddenly Planchet entered , bringing two letters for D ’ Artagnan .
THE MAN OF MEUNG The crowd was caused , not by the expectation of a man to be hanged , but by the contemplation of a man who was hanged .
If your man is mine , with one blow I shall obtain two revenges , that ’ s all ; but where to find this man ? ” “ I know not. ” “ Have you no information as to his abiding place ? ” “ None .
If you do not want me at Leghorn , you can leave me there , and I will pay you out of the first wages I get , for my food and the clothes you lend me. ” “ Ah , ” said the captain , “ we can agree very well , if you are reasonable. ” “ Give me what you give the others , and it will be all right , ” returned Dantès .
I can not help thinking that he has brought his son to France to choose a wife. ” “ Do you think so ? ” “ I am sure of it. ” “ And you have heard his fortune mentioned ? ” “ Nothing else was talked of ; only some said he was worth millions , and others that he did not possess a farthing. ” “ And what is your opinion ? ” “ I ought not to influence you , because it is only my own personal impression. ” “ Well , and it is that—— ” “ My opinion is , that all these old _podestàs_ , these ancient _condottieri_ , —for the Cavalcanti have commanded armies and governed provinces , —my opinion , I say , is , that they have buried their millions in corners , the secret of which they have transmitted only to their eldest sons , who have done the same from generation to generation ; and the proof of this is seen in their yellow and dry appearance , like the florins of the republic , which , from being constantly gazed upon , have become reflected in them. ” “ Certainly , ” said Danglars , “ and this is further supported by the fact of their not possessing an inch of land. ” “ Very little , at least ; I know of none which Cavalcanti possesses , excepting his palace in Lucca. ” “ Ah , he has a palace ? ” said Danglars , laughing ; “ come , that is something. ” “ Yes ; and more than that , he lets it to the Minister of Finance while he lives in a simple house .
“ Well , ” said he , when Franz had concluded , “ what do you find to object to in all you have related ?
It is not I who strike M. de Morcerf ; it is Providence which punishes him. ” “ And why do you represent Providence ? ” cried Mercédès .
I saw , amid the shadows , the table sink through the floor ; a quarter of an hour later it reappeared , bearing my supper .
The Island of Tiboulen Chapter 22 .
One night , however , I heard his sobs , and I could not resist my desire to go up to him , but when I reached his door he was no longer weeping but praying .
Chapter XC .
They were at that part of the Quai des Ormes where the steps lead down to the river .
On whom does my bleeding heart repose ?
eh ?
La Ramee , some day when he sends for you , you must let me put on your clothes ; I will go in your stead ; I will strangle him , and upon my honor , if that is made a condition I will return to prison. ” “ Monseigneur , I see well that I must call Grimaud. ” “ Well , I am wrong .
The sentinel who was relieved at six o ’ clock in the morning , remembered perfectly that , just as he was taking his post a few minutes past four , a young man arrived on horseback , with a little boy before him .
The cell was clean , though empty , and dry , though situated at an immeasurable distance under the earth .
The reason why I am now dissatisfied is that I have not a clear appreciation of the past .
The bitter cup of adversity has been drained by me to the very dregs , and I feel that the grave is not far distant .
“ It appears , ” said the baron , seating himself in the armchair opposite that occupied by Milady , and stretching out his legs carelessly upon the hearth , “ it appears we have made a little apostasy ! ” “ What do you mean , sir ! ” “ I mean to say that since we last met you have changed your religion .
At first , on arriving at the door through which Mazarin had passed , D ’ Artagnan tried in vain to open it , but on the powerful shoulder of Porthos being applied to one of the panels , which gave way , D ’ Artagnan introduced the point of his sword between the bolt and the staple of the lock .
Help , help ! ” screamed she , turning towards the wall , as if she would tear an opening with her hands .
put him to death ! ” Franz sprang back , but the count seized his arm , and held him before the window .
During dessert , the servant inquired at what time they wished for the carriage .
Then his admirable nature underwent a complete and sudden revulsion ; he arose , rushed out of the room and to the stairs , exclaiming energetically , “ Julie , Julie—Emmanuel , Emmanuel ! ” Monte Cristo endeavored also to leave , but Maximilian would have died rather than relax his hold of the handle of the door , which he closed upon the count .
I shall meet them there , and who knows what future advantages may result from the interview ?
The master was to get all this out of Leghorn free of duties , and land it on the shores of Corsica , where certain speculators undertook to forward the cargo to France .
He tried to pass his body through the aperture , but not being like the frog in the fable , who thought he was larger than he really was , he found he must take out three or four more before he could get through .
You have restored my courage by a single word ; go , I will rejoin you. ” Milady ran up to her apartment quickly ; she there found Rochefort ’ s lackey , and gave him his instructions .
Fortunately , you have the sapphire. ” “ The jewel is yours , my dear Athos !
This time Caderousse endeavored to call again , but he could only utter a groan , and he shuddered as the blood flowed from his three wounds .
D ’ Artagnan at first believed that he had to do with some judge examining his papers ; but he perceived that the man at the desk wrote , or rather corrected , lines of unequal length , scanning the words on his fingers .
Sit down there , before me , D ’ Artagnan ; you are gentleman enough not to listen standing. ” And the cardinal pointed with his finger to a chair for the young man , who was so astonished at what was passing that he awaited a second sign from his interlocutor before he obeyed .
But I was at my own house , you understand , so there was nothing to be done but to send for the cards , which I did .
Confided to me , it shall never escape my lips ; say , Albert , my friend , do you wish it ? ” Albert threw himself on Beauchamp ’ s neck .
“ Oh , for pity ’ s sake , ” said she , “ you will live , will you not ? ” “ No , on my honor , ” said Maximilian ; “ but that will not affect you .
_Peste ! _ Edmond , you have a very handsome mistress ! ” “ She is not my mistress , ” replied the young sailor , gravely ; “ she is my betrothed. ” “ Sometimes one and the same thing , ” said Morrel , with a smile .
This amused him sometimes a little , and made him endure the siege with patience ; but it did not prevent his getting very tired , or from talking at every moment of returning to Paris—so that if the messengers and the spies had failed , his Eminence , notwithstanding all his inventiveness , would have found himself much embarrassed .
The ass !
“ I had him so well at the point of my gun I should have sent a ball into his breast. ” “ It is enough to have killed the mother , ” said Athos , hoarsely .
Presently a good , solid , wooden ladder was placed against the window .
and why on earth does she want to speak to me at all ? ” He was turning this thought over in his brain for the twentieth time , when the door opened and Eugénie appeared , attired in a figured black satin dress , her hair dressed and gloves on , as if she were going to the Italian Opera .
“ Come in , ” said Monte Cristo with a voice that betrayed not the least emotion ; and immediately Beauchamp appeared .
“ It is I who cherish no resentment. ” Porthos didn ’ t understand any too clearly ; but then we know that understanding was not his strong point .
Deuce take it !
“ No , monsieur , ” returned the count ; and he drew from his pocket a marvellous casket , formed out of a single emerald and closed by a golden lid which unscrewed and gave passage to a small greenish colored pellet about the size of a pea .
Debray , who perceived the gathering clouds , and felt no desire to witness the explosion of Madame Danglars ’ rage , suddenly recollected an appointment , which compelled him to take his leave ; while Monte Cristo , unwilling by prolonging his stay to destroy the advantages he hoped to obtain , made a farewell bow and departed , leaving Danglars to endure the angry reproaches of his wife .
“ I often think of that young man , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Strange !
“ A galley-slave , escaped from confinement at Toulon. ” “ And what crime has he committed ? ” “ He is accused , ” said the commissary with his inflexible voice , “ of having assassinated the man named Caderousse , his former companion in prison , at the moment he was making his escape from the house of the Count of Monte Cristo. ” Monte Cristo cast a rapid glance around him .
The abbess , who was the daughter of a noble house , took particular delight in stories of the court , which so seldom travel to the extremities of the kingdom , and which , above all , have so much difficulty in penetrating the walls of convents , at whose threshold the noise of the world dies away .
Stay !
What might be the consequences ?
Twenty minutes , twenty tedious minutes , passed thus , then ten more , and at last the clock struck the half-hour .
“ The enemy ! ” cried the king .
Besides , D ’ Artagnan passed the evening with me. ” “ Well , ” said the cardinal , “ everybody seems to have passed the evening with you. ” “ Does your Eminence doubt my word ? ” said Tréville , with a brow flushed with anger .
Now , chevalier , ” he added , turning to Aramis , “ let us go .
He was very successful upon that question .
The young girl herself generally passed her time in the chamber at the farther end of her apartments .
“ On guard , then ! ” cried Athos .
He reflected , but he remembered that he himself would have charge of the food and the wine and therefore that no powder could be mixed with the food , no drug with the wine .
The dying man had signed a deposition declaring Benedetto to be the assassin .
Dantès half feared that such valuable jewels in the hands of a poor sailor like himself might excite suspicion ; but the cunning purchaser asked no troublesome questions concerning a bargain by which he gained a round profit of at least eighty per cent .
Well , I swear to you , all three , that had the executioner of Bethune—was he not of Bethune ? —yes , egad !
Albert and Franz looked at each other , fearing really to abuse the count ’ s kindness .
Having reached the summit of a rock , he saw , a thousand feet beneath him , his companions , whom Jacopo had rejoined , and who were all busy preparing the repast which Edmond ’ s skill as a marksman had augmented with a capital dish .
“ Take it , then , and pray disturb us no longer , ” said Madame de Villefort , giving the album to Edward , who then went towards the door , led by his mother .
Tell me , sir , could you have the courage to do so ? ” “ Yes , Morrel , ” said Monte Cristo , with a calmness which contrasted strangely with the young man ’ s excitement ; “ yes , I would do so. ” “ You ? ” exclaimed Morrel , with increasing anger and reproach— “ you , who have deceived me with false hopes , who have cheered and soothed me with vain promises , when I might , if not have saved her , at least have seen her die in my arms !
“ Is it you ? ” she said .
Brave , rash , and enterprising , this was not the first time he had risked his life in such attempts .
This fox of a fellow will be sending us a hundred iron-sided beasts who will pick us off like sparrows in this place .
“ Well ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ If I judge for myself , my lord , ” she said , “ the cardinal will do nothing , and will even , perhaps , act against us .
Listen to this dilemma : God is God , and the world is the devil .
I am quite resigned .
“ Can all this force be summoned on my account ? ” thought he .
It is my marriage you mean , is it not , dear grandpapa ? ” “ Yes , yes , yes , ” signed the paralytic , casting on Valentine a look of joyful gratitude for having guessed his meaning .
Where , my God ? ” “ Where we have orders to lead you. ” “ But that is not an answer. ” “ It is , nevertheless , the only one we can give. ” “ Ah , my God , my God ! ” murmured the poor mercer , “ now , indeed , I am lost ! ” And he followed the guards who came for him , mechanically and without resistance .
I read it a little while since .
Yet man will never be perfect until he learns to create and destroy ; he does know how to destroy , and that is half the battle. ” “ So , ” added Madame de Villefort , constantly returning to her object , “ the poisons of the Borgias , the Medicis , the Renées , the Ruggieris , and later , probably , that of Baron de Trenck , whose story has been so misused by modern drama and romance—— ” “ Were objects of art , madame , and nothing more , ” replied the count .
The ballet was called _Poliska_ .
I believe , if she had not been laden , and I had been her master , he would have bought her .
Chapter 22 .
The parents of little La Valliere have for a long time perceived and been amused at it ; now they begin to look concerned. ” “ Nonsense !
Oh , no !
Louis XVIII .
Everybody talked at once , without waiting for a reply and each one seemed to be contented with expressing his or her own thoughts .
You met a monk , did you not ? ” “ Yes. ” The young men looked at each other with an expression of fear .
Two of the men from Jacopo ’ s boat came on board the yacht to assist in navigating it , and he gave orders that she should be steered direct to Marseilles .
“ But what if I am not liberated , ” cried he , “ and am detained here until my death ?
This was the scene which presented itself to my view as I quitted my father after that last kiss .
Besides , the Scriptures say , ‘ Confess yourselves to one another , ’ and I confess to you , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ And I give you absolution beforehand .
My servants seem to imitate those you sometimes see in a play , who , because they have only a word or two to say , aquit themselves in the most awkward manner possible .
“ That is not all , sir , ” continued Mazarin ; “ your private adventures have touched me to the quick ; besides , the letter from Mr. Cromwell makes you an important person as ambassador ; come , tell me , what can I do for you ? ” Mordaunt reflected a moment and , after some hesitation , was about to speak , when Bernouin entered hastily and bending down to the ear of the cardinal , whispered : “ My lord , the Queen Henrietta Maria , accompanied by an English noble , is entering the Palais Royal at this moment. ” Mazarin made a bound from his chair , which did not escape the attention of the young man and suppressed the confidence he was about to make .
“ The king has no authority here ! ” answered a deep voice , which seemed to proceed from a cloud , so enveloped was the cavalier in a whirlwind of dust .
I shall compliment Mademoiselle Danglars on her cameo , while the father talks to you. ” “ If you compliment her at all , let it be on her voice , at least , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ _Corbleu ! _ I am more your friend than you think—for after our very first encounter , I could by saying a word to the cardinal have had your throat cut ! ” They this time embraced heartily , and without retaining any malice .
Did you not tell me it was a family jewel ? ” “ Yes , my grandfather gave two thousand crowns for it , as he once told me .
“ Yes , ” replied Porthos , coughing .
“ Mine was carried away by a ball .
Porthos wanted to follow him .
Mousqueton is propped against the door and here ’ s the key. ” “ Bravo ! ” said Aramis , “ how did you manage it ? ” “ Like everything else , with money ; but it cost me dear. ” “ How much ? ” asked Athos .
“ Well , suppose I go back to the cardinal and ask him for a passport into all the convents one can find , even into the nunneries ?
‘ If they do not bring us peace , we will give them war ; if they do not bring life , we will give them death. ’ And he renewed the flame of his lance with a gesture which made one think of Dionysus of old Crete.16 But I , being only a little child , was terrified by this undaunted courage , which appeared to me both ferocious and senseless , and I recoiled with horror from the idea of the frightful death amidst fire and flames which probably awaited us .
Panting with loss of breath , he returned to the room he had just left .
“ The apparent reason , at least , ” said Madame de Villefort .
The three Lieutenants of the Generalissimo .
So in twelve times you thrice missed the mark. ” “ Which you , sir , struck twelve times , ” answered Raoul , smiling .
Noirtier , ” resumed M. d ’ Avrigny in the same pitiless tone , — “ M .
Come , tell me ! ” “ She had seduced and ruined my brother , a priest .
“ But you , my friend—are you not going to change your dress ? ” “ No , I shall go as I am .
“ At least I hope so , ” said the novice , with an expression of joy which she made no effort to disguise .
“ Your daughter will be married tomorrow , if not today—in a week , if not tomorrow ; and I do not think you can regret the intended husband of your daughter. ” Madame Danglars gazed on Villefort , stupefied to find him so almost insultingly calm .
“ And now , Monsieur du Verger , ” he said , “ shut yourself up with this man until Monsieur Bernouin returns to open the door .
The post-chaise—— ” “ Was happily bought three days since. ” “ Have you had it sent where we are to go for it ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Our passport ? ” “ Here it is. ” And Eugénie , with her usual precision , opened a printed paper , and read : “ M .
do you know what consoled him ?
“ Do you call him Nebuchadnezzar ? ” said Mordaunt , with a terrible smile ; “ no , it is Charles the First , the king , the good King Charles , who despoils his subjects to enrich himself. ” Charles glanced a moment at the insolent creature who uttered this , but did not recognize him .
I used to play almost every night in France. ” “ And since your return to England ? ” “ I have not handled a card or dice-box. ” “ I sincerely pity you , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with an air of profound compassion .
Franz was sitting on the spot where he was on the previous evening when his mysterious host had invited him to supper ; and he saw the little yacht , now like a sea-gull on the wave , continuing her flight towards Corsica .
“ My friends , ” said Athos , “ this is what I expected from such hearts as yours .
“ And now , ” he exclaimed , remembering the tale of the Arabian fisherman , which Faria had related to him , “ now , Open Sesame ! ” Chapter 24 .
At noon they rode into the avenue of Pierrefonds .
The Judge We remember that the Abbé Busoni remained alone with Noirtier in the chamber of death , and that the old man and the priest were the sole guardians of the young girl ’ s body .
“ To what are you not equal , with your superior intelligence , infallible eye , your arm of iron and your enterprising mind ! ” “ Now , ” said the Gascon , “ that is all well , I accept for Porthos and myself everything—thanks and compliments ; we have plenty of time to spare. ” The two friends , recalled by D ’ Artagnan to what was also due to Porthos , pressed his hand in their turn .
The prisoner glanced at the windows—they were grated ; he had changed his prison for another that was conveying him he knew not whither .
“ Good , ” said Mazarin , “ I am glad to see that his majesty has been brought up with a hatred of dissimulation. ” “ Why do you say that ? ” asked the queen , almost timidly .
I request , then , that Planchet may be chosen , more particularly as he has already been to London with me , and knows how to speak correctly : _London , sir , if you please , and my master , Lord D ’ Artagnan_ .
“ Well ? ” said the count .
He now called himself Du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds , and resided on his new estate .
At length when they found they were likely to be really in want , they got together , as a last effort , eight or ten pistoles , with which Porthos went to the gaming table .
30. ” “ Yes , a fine house standing alone , between a courtyard and a garden , —you must know it. ” “ Possibly ; but it is not the exterior I care for , it is the interior .
De Winter dismounted at his hotel and went up into his apartment , intending to watch the spy ; but as he was about to place his gloves and hat on a table , he saw reflected in a glass opposite to him a figure which stood on the threshold of the room .
The fourth horse had arrived .
Thank you , sir , thank you ! ” “ This is how you have lived during the last four nights , Valentine , ” said the count .
But whom are you seeking , Debray ? ” “ I am seeking the Count of Monte Cristo ” said the young man .
On the walls , over the doors , on the ceiling , were swords , daggers , Malay creeses , maces , battle-axes ; gilded , damasked , and inlaid suits of armor ; dried plants , minerals , and stuffed birds , their flame-colored wings outspread in motionless flight , and their beaks forever open .
Ah !
“ You are going already ? ” he said .
The terrified servants were on the stairs and in the passage where the doctor would pass .
“ What were you saying ? ” he asked with his flattering manner ; “ that Monsieur de Beaufort had escaped , were you not ? ” “ Oh , no , my lord ! ” said the incredulous soldier .
Adieu !
“ Upon my word , ” cried the old man , “ you make short work of this kind of affair .
“ Still you must breakfast somewhere. ” “ But if I am not hungry ? ” said the young man .
“ Count , ” added Mercédès with a supplicating glance , “ there is a beautiful Arabian custom , which makes eternal friends of those who have together eaten bread and salt under the same roof. ” “ I know it , madame , ” replied the count ; “ but we are in France , and not in Arabia , and in France eternal friendships are as rare as the custom of dividing bread and salt with one another. ” “ But , ” said the countess , breathlessly , with her eyes fixed on Monte Cristo , whose arm she convulsively pressed with both hands , “ we are friends , are we not ? ” The count became pale as death , the blood rushed to his heart , and then again rising , dyed his cheeks with crimson ; his eyes swam like those of a man suddenly dazzled .
Poor Kitty hoped to speak a few words to D ’ Artagnan when he passed through her chamber ; but Milady herself reconducted him through the darkness , and only quit him at the staircase .
“ My dear count , you have no idea what pleasure it gives me to hear you speak thus , ” said Morcerf .
I rang for a light , but , as no one came , I determined to find one for myself .
A slight shock , the dull noise of three balls which penetrated the flesh , a last cry , a convulsion of agony , proved to D ’ Artagnan that the would-be assassin had saved his life .
It was , in fact , a small craft from Dunkirk bound for Boulogne .
He had been down to the stables , already taken a look at the horses and given the necessary orders for the day , whilst Athos and Aramis were still in bed and Porthos snoring .
“ Do you know , sir , these gentlemen are each of them worth fifteen hundred pounds ? ” “ Oh , be assured , ” said Mordaunt , looking at them with an expression he vainly endeavoured to soften , “ my soldiers will guard them , and guard them well , I promise you. ” “ I shall take better care of them myself , ” answered D ’ Artagnan ; “ besides , all they require is a good room , with sentinels , or their simple parole that they will not attempt escape .
The Corsican Ogre At the sight of this agitation Louis XVIII .
“ But , my dear love , reflect a little upon what you require of me .
This formal announcement , which implied or appeared to imply , the approval of all the persons concerned in this momentous affair , had been preceded by a scene to which our readers must be admitted .
Kitty will conduct you to my chamber. ” The poor girl almost fainted at hearing these words .
Alas ! ” “ The queen ! ” “ I was going to say , there ’ s no longer a queen .
I have two horses , —I do not count my servant ’ s bobtailed nag .
“ Monsieur the Cardinal ! ” cried the stupefied Musketeer .
“ Let us take ourselves out of the way , and leave things for the present to take their course. ” After their departure , Fernand , who had now again become the friend and protector of Mercédès , led the girl to her home , while some friends of Dantès conducted his father , nearly lifeless , to the Allées de Meilhan .
All the frame was adjusted except the head , which lay on the table .
For the rest , the storm which raged within her doubled her strength , and she would have burst the walls of her prison if her body had been able to take for a single instant the proportions of her mind .
Bonacieux knocked , as at the shutter , three light and regular taps .
Instead of raising it , thought he , they have lowered it .
Aramis whistled for Bazin , but Bazin was asleep in the ante-chamber , and Aramis was obliged to shake him by the ear to awake him .
Where do you keep your wine ? ” “ No , no ; thanks .
His reserve , his roughness , and his silence made almost an old man of him .
“ How ?
He is dead , and no mistake about it. ” “ Oh , yes ; and they may have the fact attested whenever they please. ” “ So be it , ” said the Englishman .
Then , arousing from his reverie : “ Now , sir , I have one request to make to you , which you will understand , even if it should be disagreeable to you. ” “ Proceed , ” said Monte Cristo .
Why , really , the thing becomes more and more dramatic—explain yourself. ” “ I must refer again to the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques. ” “ It appears that this club is rather a bore to the police .
“ What ! ” said he , “ you have just lost one woman , whom you call good , charming , perfect ; and here you are , running headlong after another. ” D ’ Artagnan felt the truth of this reproach .
“ Are you all here ? ” he asked .
Before this day closes , if M. Danglars is guilty , he shall cease to live , or I shall die .
And so the good La Ramee made a festivity of the little supper with his prisoner .
At sight of him Madame de Villefort uttered an expression of pleasure , and , holding the child still closer towards her , she said : “ Edward , dearest , do you see that good man ?
He found him clothed in a magnificent dress covered with splendid embroidery , admiring himself before a glass .
At the first cross street Andrea stopped his horse , and Caderousse leaped out .
Bonacieux to join her .
However , I hope you will excuse the two or three seconds I am behindhand ; five hundred leagues are not to be accomplished without some trouble , and especially in France , where , it seems , it is forbidden to beat the postilions. ” “ My dear count , ” replied Albert , “ I was announcing your visit to some of my friends , whom I had invited in consequence of the promise you did me the honor to make , and whom I now present to you .
Let me now endeavor to make you forget this temporary unpleasantness , and offer you what no doubt you did not expect to find here—that is to say , a tolerable supper and pretty comfortable beds. ” “ _Ma foi_ , my dear sir , ” replied Franz , “ make no apologies .
Overturn the world , change its character , yield to mad ideas , be even criminal—but live. ” “ Count , I have your word , ” said Morrel coldly ; then taking out his watch , he added , “ It is half-past eleven. ” “ Morrel , can you intend it in my house , under my very eyes ? ” “ Then let me go , ” said Maximilian , “ or I shall think you did not love me for my own sake , but for yours ; ” and he arose .
“ Ah !
“ The devil ! ” exclaimed Porthos ; “ there ’ s Vulcan foundered. ” “ Zounds ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ then we must stop !
“ Sir , ” said Villefort , “ have you any enemies , at least , that you know. ” “ I have enemies ? ” replied Dantès ; “ my position is not sufficiently elevated for that .
There , again , Monte Cristo was assailed by a multitude of thoughts .
Two stone steps worn away by the friction of many feet led to the door , which was made of three planks ; the door had never been painted or varnished , so great cracks yawned in it during the dry season to close again when the rains came on .
At this instant a second cry , less piercing than the first , but followed by prolonged groaning , was heard .
I fear lest Athos should have been beaten down by serving men .
But what ails you ?
“ I—I was where D ’ Artagnan stands .
“ So far , well , ” said Athos , “ I perceive you know me. ” “ The Comte de la Fère ! ” murmured Milady , becoming exceedingly pale , and drawing back till the wall prevented her from going any farther .
Then a strange reaction took place ; he who had just abandoned 5,000,000 endeavored to save the 50,000 francs he had left , and sooner than give them up he resolved to enter again upon a life of privation—he was deluded by the hopefulness that is a premonition of madness .
“ Monsieur , ” said Athos , “ I have engaged two of my friends as seconds ; but these two friends are not yet come , at which I am astonished , as it is not at all their custom. ” “ I have no seconds on my part , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for having only arrived yesterday in Paris , I as yet know no one but Monsieur de Tréville , to whom I was recommended by my father , who has the honor to be , in some degree , one of his friends. ” Athos reflected for an instant .
Speak !
A longer stay in this dangerous spot would have been useless imprudence .
Hey !
How convenient that there ’ s a bench here .
“ Dead on the scaffold ; condemned by parliament. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ And executed in our presence. ” “ What , then , has Monsieur de Flamarens been telling me ? ” “ Monsieur de Flamarens ? ” “ Yes , he has just gone out. ” Athos smiled .
“ Then bring some wine , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
We still remain four friends devoted to each other ; but when it becomes a question of serving the cardinal or of fighting him , of being Mazarinists or Frondists , then we are only two. ” “ Is Monsieur Aramis with D ’ Artagnan ? ” asked Lord de Winter .
The young man stamped impatiently and ordered all sail to be spread .
Leave the box , sir ! ” Monte Cristo pointed towards the door with the most commanding dignity .
But it is a glorious day for me , ’ continued the young girl , raising her ardent gaze to heaven , ‘ that on which I find at last an opportunity of avenging my father ! ’ “ The count had not uttered one word the whole of this time .
Then I have my mode of dispensing justice , silent and sure , without respite or appeal , which condemns or pardons , and which no one sees .
He would never think of faring in the same manner as his master ; he only drank from the cask .
But let us see ; whatever I may be , ” she added , hardly restraining herself from kissing that pure brow , “ let us see what profession you wish to follow. ” Athos , standing , looked at them both with indescribable pleasure .
He again took in his strong arms the little girl , whose pretty golden head and smiling face rested on his shoulder , and placed her gently in the carriage ; then jumping on his horse with the elegance of a first-rate esquire , after bowing to Athos and D ’ Artagnan , he went off close by the door of the carriage , on somebody inside of which his eyes were riveted .
The visitor was introduced into the drawing-room , which was like all other furnished drawing-rooms .
Tomorrow , this evening , perhaps , I shall see him again ; and then the past will no longer exist. ” “ This evening ? ” asked Milady , roused from her reverie by these words .
Dantès had always entertained the greatest horror of pirates , who are hung up to the yard-arm ; he would not die by what seemed an infamous death .
Friend D ’ Artagnan , ” continued he , speaking to himself with all the amenity that he thought due himself , “ if you escape , of which there is not much chance , I would advise you to practice perfect politeness for the future .
Nothing , therefore , was settled that day , as Emery ’ s head was not steady enough for business after such an occurrence .
It is men who drive me to death ; it is men who make you weep. ” “ Yes , sire , ” said Aramis , “ yes , you are right .
“ Stay , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and do not come till you hear me drum my fingers on the door. ” When Mordaunt arrived opposite the house he saw D ’ Artagnan on the threshold and the soldiers lying on the grass here and there , with their arms .
Pray let me know who you really are ? ” The stranger smiled a melancholy smile .
And perhaps you look for it with as much impatience as I do ; perhaps this evening Madame Bonacieux will visit the conjugal domicile. ” “ Madame Bonacieux is not at liberty this evening , ” replied the husband , seriously ; “ she is detained at the Louvre this evening by her duties. ” “ So much the worse for you , my dear host , so much the worse !
‘ Ah , Assunta , ’ cried I , ‘ you are an excellent woman , and Heaven will bless you. ’ ” “ This , ” said Monte Cristo , “ is less correct than your philosophy , —it is only faith. ” “ Alas , your excellency is right , ” replied Bertuccio , “ and God made this infant the instrument of our punishment .
Each of these mobs was led by a chief , one of whom appeared to belong , not to the people , but to the honorable corporation of mendicants , and the other , notwithstanding his affected imitation of the people , might easily be discerned to be a gentleman .
Mousqueton is here , then ? ” “ Oh , yes , monsieur .
he is in a hurry ! ” 40190m These words restored Albert ; he darted from the room , followed by the count .
But I was going to tell you that I met M. de Morcerf the other day. ” “ Well ? ” “ Monsieur Franz is his friend , you know. ” “ What then ? ” “ Monsieur de Morcerf has received a letter from Franz , announcing his immediate return. ” Valentine turned pale , and leaned her hand against the gate .
Am I allowed to repeat it ? ” “ Yes , but cautiously , tell one thing at a time , and do not say I told you. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because it is a secret just discovered. ” “ By whom ? ” “ The police. ” “ Then the news originated—— ” “ At the prefect ’ s last night .
“ From time to time Caderousse darted on his wife keen , searching glances , but rapid as the lightning flash .
He causes a disturbance in your hostelry , which respectable people can not put up with .
1.E.4 .
Mordaunt reappeared .
M. Debray has made me lose 700,000 francs ; let him bear his share of the loss , and we will go on as before ; if not , let him become bankrupt for the 250,000 livres , and do as all bankrupts do—disappear .
The count soon heard Andrea ’ s voice , singing a Corsican song , accompanied by the piano .
A burst of flame rose toward the skies with an explosion like that of a hundred cannon ; the air burned , ignited by flaming embers , then the frightful lightning disappeared , the brands sank , one after another , into the abyss , where they were extinguished , and save for a slight vibration in the air , after a few minutes had elapsed one would have thought that nothing had happened .
“ This is one of those attempts that happen every day. ” “ Are you sure that we are not its objects ? ” “ We ?
they were , perhaps , in league with him. ” “ Oh , sire , ” exclaimed the Duc de Blacas , “ M .
“ Is the count shooting in the gallery ? ” said Morcerf .
“ I am only curious to unravel the mystery to which she is attached .
how does he come by his name—his fortune ?
Nevertheless , D ’ Artagnan was struck by the appearance of this new personage .
“ Or he will forget us , ” added D ’ Artagnan .
“ No , but Franz has ; for heaven ’ s sake , not a word of this before him .
The jailer always brought Dantès ’ soup in an iron saucepan ; this saucepan contained soup for both prisoners , for Dantès had noticed that it was either quite full , or half empty , according as the turnkey gave it to him or to his companion first .
“ I can not consent that this woman should die thus ! ” Milady heard these few words and caught at a shadow of hope .
When he had fixed his piercing look on this modern Babylon , which equally engages the contemplation of the religious enthusiast , the materialist , and the scoffer , — “ Great city , ” murmured he , inclining his head , and joining his hands as if in prayer , “ less than six months have elapsed since first I entered thy gates .
“ The deuce ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ do you live in this way always ? ” “ Yes , pretty well .
look ! ” cried the king , drawing up his horse with a sudden jerk , which threw it on its haunches , and seizing the bridle of Athos ’ s horse .
“ Ah ! ” he cried , “ by Jove !
They are worth about fifty thousand pounds .
A crowd of masks flowed in from all sides , emerging from the doors , descending from the windows .
Remember , I have relations who possess more millions than you have deniers .
He stiffened in the last convulsions of death and expired .
He was about to remove the pistols from the saddle he had quit to the one he was about to fill , but he found the holsters furnished with similar pistols .
“ I have the note , ” said he to Athos and to his friends .
He examined himself to see if advantage had been taken of his sleep , and having found his diamond ring on his finger , his purse in his pocket , and his pistols in his belt , he rose , paid for his bottle , and went out to try if he could have any better luck in his search after his lackey than he had had the night before .
“ Ah !
The Foundation ’ s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West , Salt Lake City , UT 84116 , ( 801 ) 596-1887 .
Bazin was stupefied at the sight of the gold , and forgot that he came to announce D ’ Artagnan , who , curious to know who the mendicant could be , came to Aramis on leaving Athos .
Charles was impatiently awaiting his return .
No , madame ; the law has commanded , and when it commands it strikes .
The fair worshipper touched the great hand of Porthos with her delicate fingers , smiled , made the sign of the cross , and left the church .
“ What is that again ? ” he asked .
This was a great affront to the king ’ s army , and a great inconvenience to the cardinal , who had no longer , it is true , to embroil Louis XIII .
You would not fight a duel ? ” asked Albert in his turn , astonished at this strange theory .
He hastily seized the coverlet of his bed , and wrapped it round him .
Now , Grimaud , you come here , climb up to the window again and tell us if Mordaunt is alone and whether he is preparing to go out or go to bed .
When we show a friend a city one has already visited , we feel the same pride as when we point out a woman whose lover we have been .
“ Ask D ’ Artagnan. ” “ To London , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
He determined to cultivate the good-will of the youth Raoul and , either whilst fencing with him or when out shooting , to extract from his simplicity some information which would connect the Athos of old times with the Athos of the present .
He dismounted twenty men to make a breach in the barricade , whilst he and others , remaining on their horses , were to protect the assailants .
I was there .
It may be remembered that it was the hat and cloak belonging to Monsieur de Gondy ’ s coachman .
You will find yesterday ’ s report of the minister of police .
I ’ m hit in the other side !
They had not seen him for two days .
D ’ Artagnan ’ s friends reminded him that he had a visit to pay , but at the same time bade him observe that there was yet time to retract .
“ The name is not unknown to me ; the Marquis of Saint-Méran ! ” and he appeared to meditate .
“ Carlini ate and drank as if nothing had happened .
“ My faith , it was time that idea came into Porthos ’ s head .
I recognize you perfectly. ” The poor young woman could not possibly suspect what frightful cruelty was behind the rampart of that pure brow , behind those brilliant eyes in which she read nothing but interest and compassion .
Chapter XXIV .
When quite a child , the little Vampa displayed a most extraordinary precocity .
“ ‘ Ah , ’ continued my father , still frowning , ‘ their idolized emperor treated these madmen as they deserved ; he called them ‘ food for cannon , ’ which was precisely all they were good for ; and I am delighted to see that the present government have adopted this salutary principle with all its pristine vigor ; if Algiers were good for nothing but to furnish the means of carrying so admirable an idea into practice , it would be an acquisition well worthy of struggling to obtain .
That will be for another time. ” “ He owed me for the councillor , the pettifogger ! ” “ But , ” said Porthos , “ if he was not crushed completely—— ” “ Ah !
Bonacieux , mechanically , “ yes , let us be gone. ” Milady made her a sign to sit down opposite , poured her a small glass of Spanish wine , and helped her to the wing of a chicken .
“ Fatality ! ” he muttered .
He uttered not a word , nor shed a tear , but a deadly pallor spread over his face ; he knelt down on the ground , raised Winter ’ s head , and unfastening the Order of the Saint Esprit , placed it on his own breast .
His brain was on fire , and life and energy returned .
“ Go on with your affair , monsieur , ” cried Planchet ; “ I have finished mine. ” Seeing this , the gentleman drew his sword , and sprang upon D ’ Artagnan ; but he had too strong an adversary .
The eight oars fell at once into the sea , making but a single sound , giving but a single stroke , and the boat seemed to fly over the surface of the water .
“ My jeweler and my secretary. ” The valet went out with a mute promptitude which showed him accustomed to obey blindly and without reply .
I think , rather than give pain to my dear mother , I would run the risk of offending the count. ” Monte Cristo turned away ; he seemed moved by this last remark .
“ You are looking for my daughter ? ” said the baroness , smiling .
He shook his head , perceived the cabaret at which he had left Aramis , and putting his horse to the trot , he shortly pulled up at the door .
My first visit is due to my father , though I am not the less grateful for the honor you have done me. ” 0029m “ Right , Dantès , quite right .
Considering the gravity of the occasion , I permit you to speak , my friend ; but be laconic , I beg .
They were thus engaged when the Count of Monte Cristo entered .
At length I felt a desire to study this living chrysalis more closely , and to endeavor to understand the secret part played by these insect-actors when they occupy themselves simply with pulling different pieces of string. ” 30191m “ And are you going there ? ” “ I am. ” “ What telegraph do you intend visiting ?
“ The man at the telegraph , ” said he , “ must either engage a gardener or devote himself passionately to agriculture. ” Suddenly he struck against something crouching behind a wheelbarrow filled with leaves ; the something rose , uttering an exclamation of astonishment , and Monte Cristo found himself facing a man about fifty years old , who was plucking strawberries , which he was placing upon grape leaves .
“ Do you know modern Greek , ” asked he .
The keeper would leave me in the background , and take all the glory to himself .
there is constancy ! ” Then turning to Grimaud , he said : “ And thou , my brave fellow , thou consentest thus to aid me ? ” Grimaud signified his assent .
However , if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website ( www.gutenberg.org ) , you must , at no additional cost , fee or expense to the user , provide a copy , a means of exporting a copy , or a means of obtaining a copy upon request , of the work in its original “ Plain Vanilla ASCII ” or other form .
If , on the contrary , it is a prisoner , the noise I make will alarm him , he will cease , and not begin again until he thinks everyone is asleep. ” Edmond rose again , but this time his legs did not tremble , and his sight was clear ; he went to a corner of his dungeon , detached a stone , and with it knocked against the wall where the sound came .
Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law .
He extended a hand to Raoul and said : “ My young friend , all the praises that are given me should be passed on to the count here ; for he has educated me in everything and it is not his fault that his pupil profited so little from his instructions .
His feeble eyes endeavored to distinguish objects , and behind the bandit he saw a man enveloped in a cloak , half lost in the shadow of a stone column .
A neighboring church clock slowly struck the hour .
At this unusual sound , a huge black dog came rushing to meet the daring assailant of his ordinarily tranquil abode , snarling and displaying his sharp white teeth with a determined hostility that abundantly proved how little he was accustomed to society .
They stamped upon the carpet with their feet ; they bit their lips till the blood came , and grasped the hilts of their swords with all their might .
“ What am I to do ? ” she said , bowed down beneath the voice of her tyrant .
It is eleven o ’ clock in the morning and the pious sisters have just finished saying mass for the success of the armies of King Charles I .
The noise became louder ; the horses could not be more than a hundred and fifty paces distant .
The figure put the comb in its pocket .
Milady made one step forward , and then drew back as if she had seen a serpent .
It was illuminated by lamps with ground-glass shades which gave only a feeble light , as if out of consideration for the envoy ’ s weak sight .
“ Please your honors , ” said the host , “ a person in a great hurry wishes to speak to one of you. ” “ To which of us ? ” asked all the four friends .
Come , will you do to-day what formerly the gentleman you do not know did for the queen ? ” “ I will do everything your majesty commands , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
help !
do think of it , Giulio !
The Meeting Chapter 91 .
Felton , let me die ! ” “ Well , then , we will live and die together ! ” cried he , pressing his lips to those of the prisoner .
“ What battle does it represent ? ” “ That of Marignan , just at the point where one of my forefathers is offering his sword to Francis I. , who has broken his .
I will not forget you .
And he sprang from the rock in order to inspect the base on which it had formerly stood .
You marry a money-bag label , it is true ; well , but what does that matter ?
30193m “ Excuse me , sir , ” replied the man , raising his hand to his cap ; “ I am not up there , I know , but I have only just come down. ” “ Do not let me interfere with you in anything , my friend , ” said the count ; “ gather your strawberries , if , indeed , there are any left. ” “ I have ten left , ” said the man , “ for here are eleven , and I had twenty-one , five more than last year .
Oh , if you refuse my advice—— ” “ What do you advise ? ” said Valentine , raising her eyes to heaven and sighing .
“ Yes , ” returned Aramis .
All we require to insure success is courage , and that you possess , and strength , which I am not deficient in ; as for patience , you have abundantly proved yours—you shall now see me prove mine. ” “ One instant , my dear friend , ” replied the abbé ; “ it is clear you do not understand the nature of the courage with which I am endowed , and what use I intend making of my strength .
As hope , however , is the last thing extinguished in the heart of man , he finished by hoping that he might survive , even though with terrible wounds , in both these duels ; and in case of surviving , he made the following reprehensions upon his own conduct : “ What a madcap I was , and what a stupid fellow I am !
Château-Renaud looked for a moment for Morrel ; but while they were watching the departure of the count , Morrel had quitted his post , and Château-Renaud , failing in his search , joined Debray and Beauchamp .
an Italian adventurer would not dare to go such lengths with such men as ourselves .
“ You know the Marquis of Saint-Méran died a few days after he had set out on his journey to Paris , and the marchioness a few days after her arrival ? ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I have heard that ; but , as Claudius said to Hamlet , ‘ it is a law of nature ; their fathers died before them , and they mourned their loss ; they will die before their children , who will , in their turn , grieve for them. ’ ” “ But that is not all. ” “ Not all ! ” “ No ; they were going to marry their daughter—— ” “ To M. Franz d ’ Épinay .
“ I was retreating on foot , for my horse was dead .
They were four honest soldiers , each with a good heart , a good arm and a sword at the service of those who wanted it .
How , sometimes , the Unhappy mistake Chance for Providence .
He threw some dust over the topcoat , which he had found time to unhook from the antechamber and button over his ball costume , and going to Chapelle-en-Serval he knocked loudly at the door of the only inn in the place .
One of the gates began to yield .
Ordinarily , prisoners were interrogated in their cells ; but they did not do so with M. Bonacieux .
At last he rose and taking his handkerchief steeped it in the blood of the martyred king .
Milady opened the letter with eagerness equal to Kitty ’ s in bringing it ; but at the first words she read she became livid .
“ I swear I will , by Heaven. ” “ ’ Tis settled , ” said Aramis ; “ at the cry ‘ Jesus Seigneur ’ we go out , upset all that stands in our way , run to our horses , jump into our saddles , spur them ; is that all ? ” “ Exactly. ” “ See , Aramis , as I have told you , D ’ Artagnan is first amongst us all , ” said Athos .
Mistrust Porthos , especially , who , to please the count whom he regards as God on earth , will assist him in contriving Mazarin ’ s escape , if Mazarin has the wit to weep or play the chivalric. ” Aramis smiled ; his smile was at once cunning and resolute .
In order to make one ’ s way amid these turbulent and conflicting waves , it was necessary to be an officer , a great noble , or a pretty woman .
“ Ah , yes , happily I have , ” replied Valentine .
He listened attentively and fancied that he discovered through three or four rather frivolous adventures , that the count , like himself , had a secret to hide in the depths of his heart .
“ Are there any stories connected with this prison besides the one relating to the poisoning of Mirabeau ? ” asked the count ; “ are there any traditions respecting these dismal abodes , —in which it is difficult to believe men can ever have imprisoned their fellow-creatures ? ” “ Yes , sir ; indeed , the jailer Antoine told me one connected with this very dungeon. ” Monte Cristo shuddered ; Antoine had been his jailer .
Alas , would I could weep like you ! ” And he drew away his friend , as affectionate as a father , as consoling as a priest , noble as a man who has suffered much .
Besides , that does not concern the home but the financial department .
“ He is saved !
I was really afraid that you were going to force that villain Particelli upon me. ” “ Sire , ” replied Richelieu , “ rest assured that Particelli , the man to whom your majesty refers , has been hanged. ” “ Ah ; so much the better ! ” exclaimed the king .
Thanks to this stroke of business the four friends were able to take away with them a sum of money which , if not large , was sufficient as a provision against delays and accidents .
At the end of fifteen months the level was finished , and the excavation completed beneath the gallery , and the two workmen could distinctly hear the measured tread of the sentinel as he paced to and fro over their heads .
Come , Morrel , it is not like a soldier to be so bad a judge of courage .
I shall have at least a pressure of the hand in public , and a sweet kiss in private. ” Full of this idea , Villefort ’ s face became so joyous , that when he turned to Dantès , the latter , who had watched the change on his physiognomy , was smiling also .
Grimaud , in fact , was not only the accountant , but the armorer of the party ; and as he was a man full of forethought , these trousers , carefully rolled up in his valise , contained every sort of tool for immediate use .
“ I say , monsieur , that chance has rendered me master of a secret— ” “ Which you will guard , I hope , young man , as your life. ” “ But which I must impart to you , monsieur , for you alone can assist me in the mission I have just received from her Majesty. ” “ Is this secret your own ? ” “ No , monsieur ; it is her Majesty ’ s. ” “ Are you authorized by her Majesty to communicate it to me ? ” “ No , monsieur , for , on the contrary , I am desired to preserve the profoundest mystery. ” “ Why , then , are you about to betray it to me ? ” “ Because , as I said , without you I can do nothing ; and I am afraid you will refuse me the favor I come to ask if you do not know to what end I ask it. ” “ Keep your secret , young man , and tell me what you wish. ” “ I wish you to obtain for me , from Monsieur Dessessart , leave of absence for fifteen days. ” “ When ? ” “ This very night. ” “ You leave Paris ? ” “ I am going on a mission. ” “ May you tell me whither ? ” “ To London. ” “ Has anyone an interest in preventing your arrival there ? ” “ The cardinal , I believe , would give the world to prevent my success. ” “ And you are going alone ? ” “ I am going alone. ” “ In that case you will not get beyond Bondy .
“ There goes one ! ” cried Athos , at the end of five hundred paces .
We set out last evening and here we are. ” “ Here you are. ” “ His eminence had something to communicate to her majesty , something secret and private—a mission that could be confided only to a sure man—and so has sent me to Saint Germain .
Have you forgotten , my lord , that it is he who answered for me to the queen ? ” “ Since then Monsieur de Beaufort has become an enemy of the State. ” “ That may be , my lord ; but since I am neither king nor queen nor minister , he is not my enemy and I can not accept your offer. ” “ This , then , is what you call devotion !
30207m “ Good , ” he said ; and M. Bertuccio left enraptured , so great , so powerful , and real was the influence exercised by this man over all who surrounded him .
’ Tis easily guessed .
The Chamber cuts down their salaries every day , so that now they have scarcely any .
D ’ Artagnan at first took these weapons for foils , and believed them to be buttoned ; but he soon perceived by certain scratches that every weapon was pointed and sharpened , and that at each of these scratches not only the spectators , but even the actors themselves , laughed like so many madmen .
Gentlemen , ” continued he , addressing the Guardsmen , “ I request you will be silent with regard to this adventure .
I know it is a weakness , ” said Caderousse , “ but it overpowers me. ” “ And yet it has not prevented your sending for me to play me some trick. ” “ Come , ” said Caderousse , wiping his large knife on his apron , “ if I did not like you , do you think I should endure the wretched life you lead me ?
“ Yes , count , ” returned the notary .
At the first sight of his old friend , Danglars assumed his majestic air , and settled himself in his easy-chair .
But Bazin , still the servant of a musketeer , when once the blood mounted to his fat cheeks , seized a broomstick and began belaboring Blaisois , saying : “ You have insulted the church , my friend , you have insulted the church ! ” At this moment Aramis , aroused by this unusual disturbance , cautiously opened the door of his room ; and Blaisois , looking reproachfully at the Cerberus , drew the letter from his pocket and presented it to Aramis .
But you first came to breakfast , did you not ?
While the waiter was preparing his room , the hostess arose ; Andrea assumed his most charming smile , and asked if he could have No .
A handkerchief , tied at the four corners , is to be the signal. ” Next moment D ’ Artagnan entered .
What would your excellency like ? ” And Peppino placed his pan on the ground , so that the steam rose directly under the nostrils of Danglars .
“ Come , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ let us go. ” And they set out for Boulogne , where toward evening they arrived , their horses flecked with foam and dark with perspiration .
Napoleon certainly he knew something of , inasmuch as he had seen and spoken with him ; but of Clement VII .
“ Have you , sir , ” asked he , “ a letter accrediting you to me ? ” “ There it is , my lord , ” said the young man .
Villefort .
But you know how the theologians in their collegiate chairs , and philosophers in their controversies , occasionally say cruel truths ; let us suppose for the moment that we are theologizing in a social way , or even philosophically , and I will say to you , rude as it may seem , ‘ My brother , you sacrifice greatly to pride ; you may be above others , but above you there is God. ’ ” 30029m “ Above us all , sir , ” was Monte Cristo ’ s response , in a tone and with an emphasis so deep that Villefort involuntarily shuddered .
Apoplexy is a rare disease among fowls , I believe , but very common among men. ” Madame de Villefort appeared more and more thoughtful .
At the corner of the street they met the count ’ s steward , who was awaiting his master .
“ Raoul !
“ Compose yourself , madame , ” said he ; “ all danger is over. ” The woman looked up at these words , and , with a glance far more expressive than any entreaties could have been , pointed to her child , who still continued insensible .
What promise of future reward have you made me for all the submission and obedience I have evinced ? —none whatever .
The favorite of two kings , immensely rich , all-powerful in a kingdom which he disordered at his fancy and calmed again at his caprice , George Villiers , Duke of Buckingham , had lived one of those fabulous existences which survive , in the course of centuries , to astonish posterity .
Edmond still heard the sound .
“ It is very clear , notwithstanding , ” replied the young man , with an artlessness wholly free from affectation ; “ tell her some fine morning an unheard-of piece of intelligence—some telegraphic despatch , of which you alone are in possession ; for instance , that Henri IV .
This man , except a sword , had all the appearance of a soldier ; and his buff boots , still slightly covered with dust , indicated that he had been on horseback in the course of the day .
La Ramee drew near to Grimaud , who spoke to him in a low voice .
I have known persons , ” he continued—for he thought he might avail himself of the opportunity of speaking of D ’ Artagnan— “ who by their sagacity and address have deceived the penetration of Cardinal Richelieu ; who by their valor have got the better of his guards and spies ; persons without money , without support , without credit , yet who have preserved to the crowned head its crown and made the cardinal crave pardon. ” “ But those men you speak of , ” said Mazarin , smiling inwardly on seeing Rochefort approach the point to which he was leading him , “ those men were not devoted to the cardinal , for they contended against him. ” “ No ; in that case they would have met with more fitting reward .
On leaving the Chamber , Danglars , who had shown violent marks of agitation during the sitting , and been more bitter than ever against the ministry , re-entered his carriage , and told the coachman to drive to the Avenue des Champs-Élysées , No .
30339m The young man , seeing them approach , drew back mechanically , until he found himself stopped by a sycamore-tree in the centre of the clump ; there he was compelled to remain .
When he reappeared , Athos received him with the same paternal smile as that which he had often bestowed on D ’ Artagnan , but a more profound tenderness for Raoul was now visibly impressed upon his face .
It consisted of a plan of his own cell and that of Dantès , with the passage which united them .
“ Count , ” she said , “ you are , I fear , gained over to the court .
You owe me an explanation , and really it is but fair that I should know what circumstance has occurred to deprive my son of your favor. ” “ It is from no personal ill-feeling towards the viscount , that is all I can say , sir , ” replied Danglars , who resumed his insolent manner as soon as he perceived that Morcerf was a little softened and calmed down .
I understand , and foreseeing that such might be the case , I took , in spite of my ignorance of affairs , certain precautions .
Why does he go in secret ?
On his part Aramis wrote a long letter .
The universal response was , that the fare was detestable , and that they wanted to be set free .
After several blows he perceived that the stones were not cemented , but had been merely placed one upon the other , and covered with stucco ; he inserted the point of his pickaxe , and using the handle as a lever , with joy soon saw the stone turn as if on hinges , and fall at his feet .
“ Some traveller seems impatient , ” said the host .
“ Well , my dear Dantès , are you now free ? ” inquired the owner .
He said nothing ; he only girded on his sword , wrapped himself in his cloak , and went straight to Buckingham Palace .
“ Then we are once more reunited ? ” said Andrea .
We immediately drew , and at the first pass I laid him stark dead. ” “ The devil ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The Hundred Days Chapter 14 .
“ Because the person who is now in the gallery prefers being alone , and never practices in the presence of anyone. ” “ Not even before you , Philip ?
They reached Saint German without any accident ; on descending , the queen found the prince awaiting her , bare-headed , to offer her his hand .
Soon the water rushes out of the scupper-holes like a whale spouting , the vessel gives a last groan , spins round and round , and disappears , forming a vast whirlpool in the ocean , and then all is over , so that in five minutes nothing but the eye of God can see the vessel where she lies at the bottom of the sea .
“ Ho !
The Marechal de Grammont and the Comte de Guiche had returned to Paris and he was quite lonely .
Keep your money—keep it , I say ; —one never has too much ; —but , at the same time , my boy , I am as much obliged by your offer as if I took advantage of it. ” “ It was offered with good will , ” said Dantès .
“ I don ’ t understand , ” said Porthos .
“ Quite certain ? ” said Milady , with a last doubt .
“ I threw the rest away with horror , and waited , with the dew of fear upon my brow .
It was not difficult to understand that he had gained the crown of his ambition and that the silver-mounted wand he brandished was in his eyes as honorable a distinction as the marshal ’ s baton which Condé threw , or did not throw , into the enemy ’ s line of battle at Fribourg .
The reference is no doubt to the _Wistaria frutescens_.—Ed .
As for me , I play my game squarely , fairly , and above board , as I always do .
“ The countess was present at the races in the Champ-de-Mars , ” said Château-Renaud .
D ’ Artagnan resumed immediately the attitude of distrust that was habitual with him .
It was no longer the same man—the fearful revelations of the three last days had crushed him .
have they allowed the headsman to escape ? ” Suddenly the dull beating of muffled drums filled the square .
The change that had come over Villefort during the examination , the destruction of the letter , the exacted promise , the almost supplicating tones of the magistrate , who seemed rather to implore mercy than to pronounce punishment , —all returned with a stunning force to his memory .
“ ‘ Why should an exception be made in her favor ? ’ “ ‘ I thought that my entreaties—— ’ “ ‘ What right have you , any more than the rest , to ask for an exception ? ’ “ ‘ It is true. ’ “ ‘ But never mind , ’ continued Cucumetto , laughing , ‘ sooner or later your turn will come. ’ Carlini ’ s teeth clenched convulsively .
Felton gently repulsed Milady , and she sank into a chair .
“ There is a man after my own heart .
You left it to me to discover the means and I have done so. ” Porthos looked at D ’ Artagnan with an expression of profound admiration .
Chapter 99 .
Bazin looked down and started , as if he had seen a serpent .
“ M .
Had he remained with you , his life must have become a hateful burden , nor would he have participated in your griefs .
But what do I see in the water—something struggling ? ” “ Oh , yes , ” exclaimed Raoul , fixing his glance on one point in the stream , splendidly illumined by the setting sun , “ a horse , a rider ! ” “ They are sinking ! ” cried Olivain in his turn .
“ Open , sir , ” she said , “ and look for yourself. ” Mazarin opened the coffer ; a knife , covered with rust , and two letters , one of which was stained with blood , alone met his gaze .
“ You have a charming young person with you tonight , count , ” said Eugénie .
“ No ; and you , Porthos ? ” “ No ; and you , Athos ? ” “ No ! ” “ If it was not you , it was your purveyor , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
He was called Benedetto , but he is ignorant of his real name , having never known his parents. ” “ Sign it ! ” continued the count .
De Chatillon opened his arms and fell back on the crupper of his horse .
There , after a few days , if you like , the civil marriage shall be celebrated without pomp or ceremony .
M. Bonacieux was at his door .
“ Yes ; a passage of St. Augustine , upon which we could not agree , ” said the Gascon .
Villefort ’ s first impression was favorable ; but he had been so often warned to mistrust first impulses , that he applied the maxim to the impression , forgetting the difference between the two words .
“ The cable is cut ! ” he cried , “ no boat ! ” “ How !
Planchet had no need to learn more .
“ Did none of you charge your purveyor , Godeau , to send me some wine ? ” “ No !
I have , therefore , as you see , great need of hearing from you .
“ It is five hundred feet from here , in advance , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
But you , general , were you not at Whitehall ? ” “ No , ” said Cromwell .
The report of a cannon announced that something new and unexpected had taken place .
And would you still cane me if I took it into my head to disobey you ?
An instant after , Bazin made his appearance at the door .
His soldiers formed a legion of devil-may-care fellows , perfectly undisciplined toward all but himself .
On the summit of a rising ground , a little in advance of the enemy , appeared a short and heavy looking man ; this man was surrounded by officers .
Excuse me for speaking so very candidly , but as this is intended only for ourselves , I do not see why I should weigh my words .
The young officer bowed with easy and elegant politeness .
Monte Cristo smiled .
“ In the court are orange-trees in pots , turf , and clumps of flowers. ” “ And no steel-traps ? ” “ No. ” “ The stables ? ” “ Are on either side of the gate , which you see there. ” And Andrea continued his plan .
He turned and saw a young woman , who made him a sign to follow her .
“ Ah !
Ask yourself , wherefore , after rescuing the infant from its living grave , you did not restore it to its mother ?
So much the better .
The magistrate had slept for a short time while the lamp sent forth its final struggles ; its flickerings awoke him , and he found his fingers as damp and purple as though they had been dipped in blood .
Ah , sir , the poor fellow told you the truth. ” “ And for that reason , he besought me to try and clear up a mystery he had never been able to penetrate , and to clear his memory should any foul spot or stain have fallen on it. ” And here the look of the abbé , becoming more and more fixed , seemed to rest with ill-concealed satisfaction on the gloomy depression which was rapidly spreading over the countenance of Caderousse .
It is useless ; for I swear to you that you are as safe here as you were twenty years , ago—you , Athos , in the Rue Ferou , and you , Aramis , in the Rue de Vaugirard. ” “ Stop , ” cried Athos , extending his hand to one of the grated windows by which the room was lighted ; “ you will soon know what to expect , for here he is. ” “ Who ? ” “ Mordaunt. ” In fact , looking at the place to which Athos pointed , D ’ Artagnan saw a cavalier coming toward the house at full gallop .
They all alighted and hastened to pay their respects to the king and queen in their coach .
Help—help—help ! ” “ Hush !
This , sir , is all I can tell you , and you see how uninteresting it is. ” As Dantès spoke , Villefort gazed at his ingenuous and open countenance , and recollected the words of Renée , who , without knowing who the culprit was , had besought his indulgence for him .
will you— ” “ This ring would certainly only recall very bitter remembrances ; then we shall never be masters of three hundred pistoles to redeem it , so that we really should lose two hundred pistoles by the bargain .
Milady saw the trouble .
Not a thought was given to a life which you once , Mercédès , had the power to render blissful ; not one hour of peaceful calm was mine ; but I felt myself driven on like an exterminating angel .
Do you love me still ? ” “ Ah , madame , ” said Porthos , in the most melancholy tone he could assume , “ when we are about to enter upon a campaign—a campaign , in which my presentiments tell me I shall be killed— ” “ Oh , don ’ t talk of such things ! ” cried the procurator ’ s wife , bursting into tears .
But be assured , my dear Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , that if I had obtained them from any other source , or if they had been confided to me , there exists no confessor more discreet than myself. ” “ Oh , I don ’ t doubt that , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ but it seems to me that you are tolerably familiar with coats of arms—a certain embroidered handkerchief , for instance , to which I owe the honor of your acquaintance ? ” This time Aramis was not angry , but assumed the most modest air and replied in a friendly tone , “ My dear friend , do not forget that I wish to belong to the Church , and that I avoid all mundane opportunities .
“ The king ! ” they exclaimed , as all rose in bewilderment .
Get your clothes together .
During the reading of this , which was long , the public attention was continually drawn towards Andrea , who bore the inspection with Spartan unconcern .
Now listen to me , Maximilian ; if by artifice , by entreaty , by accident—in short , if by any means I can delay this marriage , will you wait ? ” “ Yes , I promise you , as faithfully as you have promised me that this horrible marriage shall not take place , and that if you are dragged before a magistrate or a priest , you will refuse. ” “ I promise you by all that is most sacred to me in the world , namely , by my mother. ” “ We will wait , then , ” said Morrel .
Both entered , and found themselves in darkness ; but Mme .
Happy , on the contrary , for what am I in want of ?
His desire for blood returned , burning his brain and pervading his frame like a raging fever ; he arose in his turn , reached his hand to his belt , drew forth a pistol , and cocked it .
D ’ Artagnan , my friend , you are brave , you are prudent , you have excellent qualities ; but the women will ruin you ! ” He came to this melancholy conclusion as he entered the antechamber .
I heard the name of Rochefort .
; in fact , he could say , ‘ These two children of a cruel and persecuting king , who have inherited the vices of their father , which I alone could perceive in their juvenile propensities—these two children are impediments in my way of promoting the happiness of the English people , whose unhappiness they ( the children ) would infallibly have caused. ’ Thus was Lady Macbeth served by her conscience , when she sought to give her son , and not her husband ( whatever Shakespeare may say ) , a throne .
“ I will await you at the corner of the Rue du Musée , and if you are so long absent as to make me uneasy , I will hasten to rejoin you , and woe to him of whom you shall have cause to complain to me ! ” “ Then , Emmanuel ? ” said the young girl with hesitation , “ it is your opinion that I should obey this invitation ? ” “ Yes .
I don ’ t ask Porthos ; his opinion has been given. ” “ Why , I think , ” said Aramis , blushing as usual , “ that his ring not coming from a mistress , and consequently not being a love token , D ’ Artagnan may sell it. ” “ My dear Aramis , you speak like theology personified .
Describe to me your abduction , I pray you. ” “ Oh , that ’ s of no consequence just now , ” said Mme .
D ’ Artagnan , on his part , had gained the summit of all his wishes .
Remain here ?
But the joke appeared an excellent one to the citizens , who , seeing the conveyance without escort and unarmed , would never have believed in the possibility of so great an imprudence .
“ Sir , ” interposed Blaisois , “ I warn you that I can only swim in rivers. ” “ And I not at all , ” said Mousqueton .
“ You say truly , the gift of poor Edmond was not meant for such traitors as Fernand and Danglars ; besides , what would it be to them ?
Unfortunately , the qualities of this horse were so well concealed under his strange-colored hide and his unaccountable gait , that at a time when everybody was a connoisseur in horseflesh , the appearance of the aforesaid pony at Meung—which place he had entered about a quarter of an hour before , by the gate of Beaugency—produced an unfavorable feeling , which extended to his rider .
I swear by my honor as a sailor , by my love for Mercédès , by the life of my father—— ” “ Speak , monsieur , ” said Villefort .
“ Yes , she of whom you told me one day at Amiens. ” Athos uttered a groan , and let his head sink on his hands .
I could only utter inarticulate sounds , and irresistible faintness came over me .
Then he had run to the train , impetuous as a man who is excited by revenge , and full of confidence , as are those whom God blinds , he had set fire to the wick of nitre .
“ My daughter , ” continued Danglars , “ when a father asks his daughter to choose a husband , he has always some reason for wishing her to marry .
How is it that we , four men who have faced armies without blinking , begin to tremble at the mention of a child ? ” “ It is true , ” said Athos , “ but this child comes in the name of Heaven. ” And very soon they left the inn .
Athos seemed to grow calm as the critical moment approached .
[ 8 ] Brucea ferruginea .
Morrel held out his hand to her .
Since his first arrival at Paris , he had had constant occasion to honor this excellent man , whom he had always found worthy , loyal , and great .
The man , who had the appearance of being a butcher , descended a little steep and isolated street , looking on to the river , with two of his friends .
Grimaud took advantage of that instant to draw from his vest a charming little note with an aristocratic seal , and presented it to the duke without a word .
“ My intention was to inform Monsieur Laporte , through my husband , in order that Monsieur Laporte might tell us precisely what had taken place at the Louvre in the last three days , and whether there is any danger in presenting myself there. ” “ But I , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ can go and inform Monsieur Laporte. ” “ No doubt you could , only there is one misfortune , and that is that Monsieur Bonacieux is known at the Louvre , and would be allowed to pass ; whereas you are not known there , and the gate would be closed against you. ” “ Ah , bah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ you have at some wicket of the Louvre a _concierge_ who is devoted to you , and who , thanks to a password , would— ” Mme .
“ I did not mention that , because the signature seemed to me so strange. ” “ The letter signed ‘ Sinbad the Sailor , ’ is it not ? ” “ Exactly so .
I have told you my wish , or rather my determination .
“ You have made up your mind at last , my lord ? ” said Rochefort .
“ Yes ; a thousand times , yes ! ” “ And who completed it as it now is ? ” “ I did .
Oh , my lord ! ” continued the queen , without restraining her tears , “ it is better to fight as the king has done , and to die , as perhaps he will , than live in beggary like me. ” “ Courage , madame !
He thought it would be better to transact business with his old acquaintance , so he sent for Peppino .
You , who pretend to understand everything , even the hidden sources of knowledge , —and who enact the part of a guardian angel upon earth , and could not even find an antidote to a poison administered to a young girl !
Some day the people will burn that house , as they burned that of the Marechal d ’ Ancre .
“ Is she your daughter ? ” “ No , mademoiselle , ” said Monte Cristo , astonished at the coolness and freedom of the question .
His guards , taking him by the arms and coat-collar , forced him to rise , and dragged him towards the steps that lead to the gate of the fortress , while the police officer carrying a musket with fixed bayonet followed behind .
I have said what I have said. ” “ And as since that which you have said is too clear to require any explanation , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , in a low voice , “ I beg you to follow me. ” “ And when ? ” asked the Guardsman , with the same jeering air .
Of all his friends , Athos was the eldest , and the least resembling him in appearance , in his tastes and sympathies .
Now , if I had taken the veil , all this fortune would have descended to my father , and , in reversion , to his son. ” “ Ah , how strange it seems that such a young and beautiful woman should be so avaricious. ” “ It is not for herself that she is so , but for her son , and what you regard as a vice becomes almost a virtue when looked at in the light of maternal love. ” “ But could you not compromise matters , and give up a portion of your fortune to her son ? ” “ How could I make such a proposition , especially to a woman who always professes to be so entirely disinterested ? ” “ Valentine , I have always regarded our love in the light of something sacred ; consequently , I have covered it with the veil of respect , and hid it in the innermost recesses of my soul .
In that case Felton would escape her—for in order to secure success , the magic of a continuous seduction was necessary .
that of the home department , or of the observatory ? ” “ Oh , no ; I should find there people who would force me to understand things of which I would prefer to remain ignorant , and who would try to explain to me , in spite of myself , a mystery which even they do not understand .
They might not be satisfied , and—— ” “ Ah , ha , ” thought Danglars , “ this is not so much like Paris , except that I shall probably be skinned !
He looked around him and saw Mme .
Hatred is blind , rage carries you away ; and he who pours out vengeance runs the risk of tasting a bitter draught. ” “ Yes , if he be poor and inexperienced , not if he be rich and skilful ; besides , the worst that could happen to him would be the punishment of which we have already spoken , and which the philanthropic French Revolution has substituted for being torn to pieces by horses or broken on the wheel .
Athos glanced at Aramis .
But the voyage was not ended .
“ The chateau ! ” he said to himself , “ what chateau ?
Doubtless there was a strange expression in his eyes , for the jailer said , “ Come , are you going mad again ? ” Dantès did not answer ; he feared that the emotion of his voice would betray him .
I had often seen my noble patron annotating ancient volumes , and eagerly searching amongst dusty family manuscripts .
It was Ali , my Nubian slave , who rendered this service to Madame de Villefort. ” “ Was it Ali , ” asked the Count of Morcerf , “ who rescued my son from the hands of bandits ? ” “ No , count , ” replied Monte Cristo taking the hand held out to him by the general ; “ in this instance I may fairly and freely accept your thanks ; but you have already tendered them , and fully discharged your debt—if indeed there existed one—and I feel almost mortified to find you still reverting to the subject .
but surely you are Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” “ And thou—Planchet ! ” cried the lieutenant .
“ She is ill !
I will give you a paper which you must not part with on any account , and which you will deliver into the proper hands. ” “ And whither am I to go ? ” “ To London. ” “ I go to London ?
Besides , there was one thing that engaged his most anxious thought—in what way was the escape to be effected ?
“ We shall be murdered there , ” said Aramis .
I had no longer any wish to live for myself , I have lived for him .
“ Just so. ” “ Why , he is a second Ariosto. ” “ No , his name is the Count of Monte Cristo. ” “ There is no Count of Monte Cristo ” said Debray .
The same silence , and then , ere the host could oppose his design , Grimaud seized a pair of pincers he perceived in a corner and forced the bolt .
Neither had his eyes bandaged .
Scarcely had they reached by the Rue de la Mule the iron gate of the Place Royale , when they perceived three cavaliers , D ’ Artagnan , Porthos , and Planchet , the two former wrapped up in their military cloaks under which their swords were hidden , and Planchet , his musket by his side .
All at once the king appeared with the cardinal at one of the doors of the hall .
The decanters broken in pieces , and the fruits crushed , strewed the floor .
Haydée ’ s only reply was to direct her servant by a sign to withdraw the tapestried curtain that hung before the door of her boudoir , the framework of the opening thus made serving as a sort of border to the graceful tableau presented by the young girl ’ s picturesque attitude and appearance .
Arriving at the Faubourg St. Antoine , he turned round to look gaily at the Bastille ; but as it was the Bastille alone he looked at , he did not observe Milady , who , mounted upon a light chestnut horse , designated him with her finger to two ill-looking men who came close up to the ranks to take notice of him .
Edmond stiffened himself in order to play the part of a dead man , and then the party , lighted by the man with the torch , who went first , ascended the stairs .
“ Very well , ” said he .
“ You say she is in a convent ? ” replied Porthos .
Large valances of silk , embroidered with flowers of gay colors , which were rather faded , fell from the wide windows ; the fittings of the room were simple , but in excellent taste .
She cast her eyes upon the table , saw the glittering of a knife , rushed toward it and clutched it ; but her disappointment was cruel .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , “ you will admit that , when arrived at a certain degree of fortune , the superfluities of life are all that can be desired ; and the ladies will allow that , after having risen to a certain eminence of position , the ideal alone can be more exalted .
I have promised to escort to the Académie a Greek princess of my acquaintance who has never seen your grand opera , and who relies on me to conduct her thither. ” “ Adieu , then , sir , and do not forget the prescription. ” “ Ah , in truth , madame , to do that I must forget the hour ’ s conversation I have had with you , which is indeed impossible. ” Monte Cristo bowed , and left the house .
Here is a letter I have just received on the subject ; shall it be read , or shall it be passed over ?
She was seated .
“ What is it ? ” asked he .
Speak , or no absolution ! ” The dying man collected all his forces .
All eyes were fixed on the door , which opened slowly and with a kind of solemnity .
They still hesitated an instant ; but , as before , pride prevailed , and a second kick split the door from bottom to top .
he is saved ! ” cried Dantès in a paroxysm of delight .
Her opera-glass was so fixedly directed towards them , that Franz saw it would be cruel not to satisfy her curiosity ; and , availing himself of one of the privileges of the spectators of the Italian theatres , who use their boxes to hold receptions , the two friends went to pay their respects to the countess .
“ Charge ! ” cried Porthos .
“ Are not you the person who brought me a letter , ” inquired Franz , “ from the Viscount of Morcerf ? ” “ Your excellency lodges at Pastrini ’ s hotel ? ” “ I do. ” “ Your excellency is the travelling companion of the viscount ? ” “ I am. ” “ Your excellency ’ s name—— ” “ Is the Baron Franz d ’ Épinay. ” 20199m “ Then it is to your excellency that this letter is addressed. ” “ Is there any answer ? ” inquired Franz , taking the letter from him .
D ’ Artagnan was not willing to abandon his companion thus , and stooped to raise him and assist him in regaining the lines ; but at this moment two shots were fired .
In a few hours my strength will be utterly exhausted ; besides , perhaps I have not been missed at the fortress .
They will all disappear , like the fabrics children build with cards , and which fall , one by one , under the breath of their builder , even if there are two hundred of them .
What I know is , that , like a fool , a greater fool than he of whom I spoke just now , I mistook for this peasant girl a young bandit of fifteen or sixteen , with a beardless chin and slim waist , and who , just as I was about to imprint a chaste salute on his lips , placed a pistol to my head , and , aided by seven or eight others , led , or rather dragged me , to the Catacombs of St. Sebastian , where I found a highly educated brigand chief perusing Cæsar ’ s _Commentaries_ , and who deigned to leave off reading to inform me , that unless the next morning , before six o ’ clock , four thousand piastres were paid into his account at his banker ’ s , at a quarter past six I should have ceased to exist .
I have touched the hand of the great man ! ” cried Bonacieux .
“ What our enemies say of us is then true .
I do sometimes , soldier though I am. ” Monte Cristo advanced into the room ; Maximilian was obliged to let him pass , but he followed him .
Set out immediately for Paris , and demand of the Count of Monte Cristo , Avenue des Champs-Élysées , No .
One might have fancied that some giant had cleaved them with blows from a hatchet .
“ ‘ Well , ’ said he to me , ‘ have you made your mind up to take the oath I requested of you ? ’ “ ‘ You have said Puritans have but one word .
“ He is a very strange man , ” she said , “ and in my opinion is himself the Adelmonte he talks about. ” As to Monte Cristo the result had surpassed his utmost expectations .
The Fifth of September Chapter 31 .
D ’ Artagnan fancied himself very cunning when advising Milady to renounce , by pardoning De Wardes , the furious projects she had formed .
As to the second reproach , I have heard it said that she does not love the English , but an Englishman. ” “ Well , and by my faith , ” said Athos , “ it must be acknowledged that this Englishman is worthy of being loved .
On what plea ? ” “ You are right ; but you have made my mouth water .
Remove from me the remains of doubt , which , if it change not to conviction , must become remorse ! ” The count bowed his head , and clasped his hands together .
Still a last ray of twilight lighted the plain .
I hoped to find some traces which had escaped me in the darkness .
Speak , command , I will obey. ” Morrel , who had already gone some few steps away , again returned , and pale with joy extended both hands towards Valentine through the opening .
The doctor stood before him , with one hand placed on his shoulder .
The abbé took the note .
As to Bazin , he went and lay down on a truss of straw ; and as he had more imagination than the Swiss , he dreamed that Aramis , having become pope , adorned his head with a cardinal ’ s hat .
They had a youth with them ? ” “ Yes , sire , and one wounded man ; so that three of the king ’ s Musketeers—one of whom was wounded—and a youth not only maintained their ground against five of the most terrible of the cardinal ’ s Guardsmen , but absolutely brought four of them to earth. ” “ Why , this is a victory ! ” cried the king , all radiant , “ a complete victory ! ” “ Yes , sire ; as complete as that of the Bridge of Ce. ” “ Four men , one of them wounded , and a youth , say you ? ” “ One hardly a young man ; but who , however , behaved himself so admirably on this occasion that I will take the liberty of recommending him to your Majesty. ” “ How does he call himself ? ” “ D ’ Artagnan , sire ; he is the son of one of my oldest friends—the son of a man who served under the king your father , of glorious memory , in the civil war. ” “ And you say this young man behaved himself well ?
Then the two wings of the window facing the square had been thrown open , and the people had seen silently advancing from the interior of the vast chamber , first , a masked man , who , carrying an axe in his hand , was recognized as the executioner .
We must fire as long as we have loaded guns .
“ Ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself , “ can this be the Seigneur du Vallon de Bracieux de Pierrefonds ?
This letter was in Milady ’ s handwriting ; only this time it was addressed to M. d ’ Artagnan , and not to M. de Wardes .
And I have an idea of our leading a delightful life upon this 3,000 francs. ” “ Child ! ” sighed Mercédès .
CAPTIVITY : THE FIRST DAY Chapter LIII .
In ten minutes it would strike seven .
The whole assembly were dumb with astonishment at the revelation and confession which had produced a catastrophe so different from that which had been expected during the last fortnight by the Parisian world .
Grimaud , nevertheless , was resolved for certain reasons not at once to come to a full rupture with the prisoner ; he wanted to inspire , not a sudden repugnance , but a good , sound , steady hatred ; he retired , therefore , and gave place to four guards , who , having breakfasted , could attend on the prisoner .
Hide thy diamonds , bury thy gold , shroud thy splendor , exchange riches for poverty , liberty for a prison , a living body for a corpse ! ” As he thus reasoned , Monte Cristo walked down the Rue de la Caisserie .
And any other love but mine would have sunk beneath this ordeal ; but my love came out from it more ardent and more eternal .
The master of _La Jeune Amélie_ , who was very desirous of retaining amongst his crew a man of Edmond ’ s value , had offered to advance him funds out of his future profits , which Edmond had accepted .
Comminges , who was on guard that night at the Palais Royal , ran in .
“ Have you had another fall at the Bourse ? ” “ No ; I am safe for a few days at least .
Besides , to do all this , time is necessary—months , years ; and she has ten or twelve days , as Lord de Winter , her fraternal and terrible jailer , has told her .
“ I will go and discuss the matter with the queen. ” He stopped at the end of the corridor and said : “ I can count upon you , gentlemen , can I not ? ” “ We do not give ourselves twice over , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ we have given ourselves to you ; command , we shall obey. ” “ Very well , then , ” said Mazarin ; “ enter this cabinet and wait till I come back. ” And turning off he entered the drawing-room by another door .
It is my happiness , my treasure , my hope .
A thousand fiery darts are piercing my brain .
D ’ Artagnan trembled .
He darted upon it as an eagle would seize upon its prey .
I knew you were a Corsican .
The old servant came .
It was with him she agreed , and not with me ; he even has in his pocket a letter from that person , who attaches great importance to you , as I have heard him say. ” “ But how did you become concerned in this villainous affair ? ” “ He proposed to me to undertake it with him , and I agreed. ” “ And how much did she give you for this fine enterprise ? ” “ A hundred louis. ” “ Well , come ! ” said the young man , laughing , “ she thinks I am worth something .
At every stroke a jet of blood sprang from the wound .
The two guards led in Athos .
“ No , ” replied Beauchamp , “ I have not considered the question ; a totally different subject interests me. ” “ What is it ? ” “ The article relative to Morcerf. ” “ Indeed ?
“ ’ Tis you , then , my dear count , ” cried Gondy , offering his hand .
“ Think of it , madame , ” he said ; “ if , on my return , justice has not been satisfied , I will denounce you with my own mouth , and arrest you with my own hands ! ” She listened , panting , overwhelmed , crushed ; her eye alone lived , and glared horribly .
Indeed , I think provincial air will suit us much better just now than the air of Paris .
“ Well , yes , pretty well , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ and besides , you see , if they put us on trial , if they cut off our heads , they must meanwhile either keep us here or transfer us elsewhere. ” “ Yes , that is inevitable , ” said Porthos .
50063m “ Ah ! ” exclaimed the baroness , without expressing the ideas which the exclamation betrayed .
At each moment , in the midst of the crowd , the buzzing , and the laughter , the door-keeper ’ s voice was heard announcing some name well known in the financial department , respected in the army , or illustrious in the literary world , and which was acknowledged by a slight movement in the different groups .
Anne of Austria took one step backward , became so pale that it might be said she was dying , and leaning with her left hand upon a table behind her to keep herself from falling , she with her right hand drew the paper from her bosom and held it out to the keeper of the seals .
“ Hush ! ” returned Rochefort .
He is a fine young man , of fair complexion—a little too fair , perhaps—pleasing in manners ; but you will see and judge for yourself. ” “ By the way , ” said the major , “ you know I have only the 2,000 francs which the Abbé Busoni sent me ; this sum I have expended upon travelling expenses , and—— ” “ And you want money ; that is a matter of course , my dear M. Cavalcanti .
It was plain that it was not the chance combination of those who had collected a number of the malcontents at the same spot , but a concerted organized attack .
“ If the poor lad were living , and came to me and begged that I would candidly tell which were his true and which his false friends , why , perhaps , I should not hesitate .
Chapter 79 .
You do not know that I remained for fourteen years within a quarter of a league of you , in a dungeon in the Château d ’ If .
“ But , ” said Mazarin , “ you did not make so many difficulties with regard to the king and queen. ” “ The king and the queen are my king and queen , ” replied the musketeer , “ my life is theirs and I must give it for them .
The blood mounted instantly to the temples of D ’ Artagnan , who arose , and replied : “ I consider it worthy conduct of a pupil of Jesuits. ” On seeing D ’ Artagnan rise , Porthos rose also ; these four men were therefore all standing at the same time , with a menacing aspect , opposite to each other .
Then he took the boy upon his knee .
_Peste ! _ You come to your conclusions quickly .
Noirtier ’ s room was opened , like all the rest .
The siege of La Rochelle is about to be resumed , monseigneur .
“ The parliament !
“ He is worse than that , —he is a devil ! ” returned the turnkey .
He repeated his question .
Mercédès , who will detest you if you have only the misfortune to scratch the skin of her dearly beloved Edmond ! ” “ True ! ” said Fernand .
“ My friends , ” said Parry , mounting the scaffold and standing beside them , “ would you work a little more quietly ?
“ What have I done wrong , father , ” she said , “ that you should take this key from me ? ” “ Nothing , my dear , ” replied the unhappy man , the tears starting to his eyes at this simple question , — “ nothing , only I want it. ” Julie made a pretence to feel for the key .
Disarm him only—make sure of his sword .
“ To the fearful noises that had awakened me had succeeded the most perfect silence—unbroken , save by the footsteps of a man walking about in the chamber above .
The worthy mercer had , immediately upon re-entering his house , informed his wife of his happy return , and his wife had replied by congratulating him , and telling him that the first moment she could steal from her duties should be devoted to paying him a visit .
He even opened his mouth to tell Milady who he was , and with what a revengeful purpose he had come ; but she added , “ Poor angel , whom that monster of a Gascon barely failed to kill. ” The monster was himself .
Let us , then , hope for the best ; hope is so sweet a comforter .
He consigned his unknown persecutors to the most horrible tortures he could imagine , and found them all insufficient , because after torture came death , and after death , if not repose , at least the boon of unconsciousness .
I forgot there were three more steps before the landing. ” “ You have hurt yourself , perhaps , ” said Morrel .
Mme .
The servant soon returned .
It ’ s not polite not to reply to friends who ask news of your health. ” “ My health is well enough , ” said Fernand , clenching his hands without raising his head .
This time , without knowing why , D ’ Artagnan felt a cold shiver run through his veins .
His eyes acquired that quality which in the first moment of strong emotion enables them to see distinctly , and which afterwards fails from being too much taxed .
He saw a little dark man , ill made and awkward with his hands in everything—except drawing a sword and firing a pistol—with something haughty and contemptuous in his face .
“ Then you remember everything that went on about you from the time when you were three years old ? ” said Albert .
It was even , according to our present manners , something like an infamous action ; but at that period people did not manage affairs as they do today .
“ Come , ” murmured Athos , “ if she is not proud of him , she must be hard to please. ” It was three o ’ clock in the afternoon .
“ Listen , my dear friend ; in two words you will know all .
The Challenge Then , ” continued Beauchamp , “ I took advantage of the silence and the darkness to leave the house without being seen .
If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement , you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession .
The nobles and ladies of their Majesties ’ suites were to dress , two by two , in chambers prepared for the purpose .
Valentine rushed towards him ; his lips again moved .
“ Ah !
I shall try also to help him to down the Fronde , but on one condition—that he sometimes remembers the king ’ s faithful servants and gives the first vacant company of musketeers to a man that I could name .
“ But whither shall we fly—whither escape ? ” “ Let us first withdraw from this house ; afterward we shall see. ” The young woman and the young man , without taking the trouble to shut the door after them , descended the Rue des Fossoyeurs rapidly , turned into the Rue des Fossés-Monsieur-le-Prince , and did not stop till they came to the Place St. Sulpice .
She asked D ’ Artagnan if he had a mistress .
And you , Monsieur du Vallon—— ” “ Yes , you , sir !
Anne of Austria , deprived of the confidence of her husband , pursued by the hatred of the cardinal , who could not pardon her for having repulsed a more tender feeling , having before her eyes the example of the queen-mother whom that hatred had tormented all her life—though Marie de Médicis , if the memoirs of the time are to be believed , had begun by according to the cardinal that sentiment which Anne of Austria always refused him—Anne of Austria had seen her most devoted servants fall around her , her most intimate confidants , her dearest favorites .
He attempted to ride over those gray cloaks , but the gray cloaks held their ground and the marshal retired toward the Rue Saint Honore , leaving four of his guards dead on the field of battle .
Monte Cristo descended into the courtyard , walked all over the house , without giving any sign of approbation or pleasure , until he entered his bedroom , situated on the opposite side to the closed room ; then he approached a little piece of furniture , made of rosewood , which he had noticed at a previous visit .
This horrible place contained fifty cells ; their inhabitants were designated by the numbers of their cell , and the unhappy young man was no longer called Edmond Dantès—he was now number 34 .
We performed the usual burial service , and he is at his rest , sewn up in his hammock with a thirty-six-pound shot at his head and his heels , off El Giglio island .
To imprison him , monseigneur ?
Albert was charmed with the count ’ s manners , and he was only prevented from recognizing him for a perfect gentleman by reason of his varied knowledge .
“ No. ” She took successively all the other papers out till the drawer was empty .
“ There are your instructions , ” said Mazarin ; “ go ! ” “ Go !
D ’ Artagnan picked it up and offered it to Lord de Winter .
You love me , madame ; it is enough. ” “ I love you , I ? ” “ Yes , yes .
D ’ Artagnan was worn out with fatigue .
Albert , too , was ill at ease ; the remains of luxury prevented him from sinking into his actual position .
is that you , dear friend ? ” exclaimed Porthos .
“ Well , bring it , ” said Athos .
“ One question first .
D ’ Artagnan politely begged the Swiss to yield to him the disputed chamber ; the Swiss refused by shaking his head , and drew his sword .
The young men made inquiries and ascertained that the enemy was advancing by way of Houdin and Bethune .
“ My friend , Aramis , here , has received a slight sword wound in the arm , but not enough to prevent him , as your Eminence may see , from mounting to the assault tomorrow , if your Eminence orders an escalade. ” “ But you are not the men to allow sword wounds to be inflicted upon you thus , ” said the cardinal .
Is it not so ? ” “ Certainly ; but if you love me as much as you say , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ do you not entertain a little fear on my account ? ” “ What have I to fear ? ” “ Why , that I may be dangerously wounded—killed even. ” “ Impossible ! ” cried Milady , “ you are such a valiant man , and such an expert swordsman. ” “ You would not , then , prefer a method , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ which would equally avenge you while rendering the combat useless ? ” Milady looked at her lover in silence .
Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks , online payments and credit card donations .
You can sign it. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said Caderousse ; and his eyes glistened at the thought of this posthumous revenge .
“ He , he ! ” murmured she ; “ can it be he ? ” And she remained in bed with her eyes fixed .
This may appear to you to be no unusual combination of circumstances ; nevertheless , I perceive some hidden plot in the arrangement—something , in fact , more than is apparent on a casual view of the subject .
“ Good , ” she exclaimed , approaching the table , “ she has taken part of her draught ; the glass is three-quarters empty. ” Then she went to the fireplace and lit the fire , and although she had just left her bed , she could not resist the temptation offered by Valentine ’ s sleep , so she threw herself into an armchair to snatch a little more rest .
But even this would have availed little against a more deadly medium of death employed four days ago , which is generally but too fatal. ” “ But who , then , is this assassin , this murderer ? ” “ Let me also ask you a question .
Then the count brought the taper to the window , that it might be seen in the Champs-Élysées that a man was getting out of the window while another held a light .
The conflict was not long ; the wretch had nothing to defend himself with but his discharged arquebus .
He rapidly devoured his food , and after waiting an hour , lest the jailer should change his mind and return , he removed his bed , took the handle of the saucepan , inserted the point between the hewn stone and rough stones of the wall , and employed it as a lever .
Two days previously , the article had appeared in another paper besides _ l ’ Impartial_ , and , what was more serious , one that was well known as a government paper .
Curiosity had vanquished the desire of preserving his _incognito_ , and he was recognized .
“ Captain , ” said Felton , “ this is the person of whom I spoke to you , and whom you must convey safe and sound to France. ” “ For a thousand pistoles , ” said the captain .
I was compelled , at this period , to leave Corsica on an important expedition ; I reflected for a long time , and with the hope of averting some impending misfortune , I resolved that Benedetto should accompany me .
He was already enjoying the sweet dream engendered by the possession of two hundred and nineteen louis , made in a quarter of an hour , when a voice was heard at the door of the hall , which made him stir .
than the son of Peter Mazarin .
Some of your words are to me quite empty of meaning .
Then the count knelt down by the side of the bed , which death had converted into an altar .
In the shadow was a carriage with two horses , and some saddlehorses .
“ But , ” said Aramis , “ if they dare to condemn their king , it can only be to exile or imprisonment. ” D ’ Artagnan whistled a little air of incredulity .
“ Stop , and let us talk. ” “ Talking with you brings me misfortune , ” said Porthos .
Two broke , from the heat of the fire ; the other ten were sunk three hundred fathoms deep into the sea .
You understand , my dear baron , that legal methods are the safest in criminal cases ; it was , perhaps , some plot against you. ” Andrea looked steadily at Monte Cristo and disappeared in the second drawing-room .
Besides , how is it possible to avoid a little condescension toward a husband whose pretty wife has appointed a meeting with you that same evening at St .
“ No , ” said Felton , “ it is nothing. ” “ But what , then , is the noise ? ” “ That of the patrol going their rounds. ” “ Where is their road ? ” “ Just under us. ” “ They will discover us ! ” “ No , if it does not lighten. ” “ But they will run against the bottom of the ladder. ” “ Fortunately it is too short by six feet. ” “ Here they are !
“ ‘ What has he to say ? ’ inquired the young man who was in command in the chief ’ s absence .
30139m “ If you wish it , my son , ” said the major ; and the two men embraced each other after the fashion of actors on the stage ; that is to say , each rested his head on the other ’ s shoulder .
For an instant it remained motionless as one of the stone decorations of the building , then after a long sigh of disappointment the head disappeared .
We hear From Yanina Chapter 79 .
“ How pale he is ! ” said Château-Renaud , shuddering .
It was thus Athos found at home resources which he did not expect .
Give orders to the coachman ; and be in readiness on the stairs to conduct us to it. ” The steward bowed , and was about to quit the room .
Pistache , on a signal from his master , placed himself on this line , raised himself on his hind paws , and holding in his front paws a wand with which clothes used to be beaten , he began to dance upon the line with as many contortions as a rope-dancer .
The four lackeys guarded the door and the window .
I should find myself , therefore , more at my ease , _facilius natans_ , in a subject of my own choice , which would be to these hard theological questions what morals are to metaphysics in philosophy. ” D ’ Artagnan began to be tired , and so did the curate .
But , as you know , a Corsican who has sworn to avenge himself cares not for distance , so his carriage , fast as it went , was never above half a day ’ s journey before me , who followed him on foot .
They sent him a magnificent supper , and took his million .
This box contained an unctuous substance partly solid , of which it was impossible to discover the color , owing to the reflection of the polished gold , sapphires , rubies , emeralds , which ornamented the box .
The duke looked at this strange figure with surprise .
At five o ’ clock in the morning the straw was worth eighty francs a truss and there was no more to be had .
And from this time the kindness which Edmond showed him was enough for the brave seaman .
It soon appeared to him that he heard a slight noise within—a timid noise which seemed to tremble lest it should be heard .
“ How can you remember what Monsieur de Richelieu did ?
But let us wait a little and reflect .
Where , and how ? ” “ That ’ s true ! ” “ Fore Gad , these Frenchmen have no consideration ! ” “ I had forgotten that England was an island , and that you were the king of it. ” “ Go to the riverside , ask for the brig _Sund_ , and give this letter to the captain ; he will convey you to a little port , where certainly you are not expected , and which is ordinarily only frequented by fishermen. ” “ The name of that port ? ” “ St .
Die , impenitent , die in despair , die and be damned ! ” And drawing a poniard from beneath his robe he thrust it into the breast of the wounded man , saying , “ Here is my absolution ! ” Then was heard that second cry , not so loud as the first and followed by a long groan .
Above the room in which Debray had been dividing two millions and a half with Madame Danglars was another , inhabited by persons who have played too prominent a part in the incidents we have related for their appearance not to create some interest .
You see I have not these necessary papers. ” “ Fortunately , I have them , though , ” said Monte Cristo .
Chapter LXV .
Athos offered the man half a pistole to accompany him , but the man refused .
You may one of these days reap the reward of your disinterested devotion .
And the other ? ” “ Which ? ” “ The short one. ” “ Oh , he was not a gentleman , I ’ ll answer for it ; besides , he did not wear a sword , and the others treated him with small consideration. ” “ Some lackey , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan .
What have I done , then ?
I have almost given them away , as it is ; but , as I before said , I was anxious to get rid of them upon any terms .
Penelon had still preserved the habit of calling his master ’ s daughter “ Mademoiselle Julie , ” and had never been able to change the name to Madame Herbault .
Dantès , struck with the beauty and capability of the little vessel , applied to its owner to transfer it to him , offering sixty thousand francs , upon condition that he should be allowed to take immediate possession .
The Frenchman threw her a bouquet ; Teresa returned it—all this with the consent of the chief , who was in the carriage. ” “ What ? ” cried Franz , “ was Luigi Vampa in the carriage with the Roman peasants ? ” “ It was he who drove , disguised as the coachman , ” replied Peppino .
“ The one between the pillars on the first tier—it seems to have been fitted up entirely afresh. ” “ Did you observe anyone during the first act ? ” asked Château-Renaud .
Had Dantès found nothing he could not have become more ghastly pale .
Now , how could a sailor find room in his pocket for a portfolio large enough to contain an official letter ? ” “ You are right ; it was left on board. ” “ Then it was not till your return to the ship that you put the letter in the portfolio ? ” “ No. ” “ And what did you do with this same letter while returning from Porto-Ferrajo to the vessel ? ” “ I carried it in my hand. ” “ So that when you went on board the _Pharaon_ , everybody could see that you held a letter in your hand ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Danglars , as well as the rest ? ” “ Danglars , as well as others. ” “ Now , listen to me , and try to recall every circumstance attending your arrest .
Perhaps he can not reconcile himself to the French style of living , and might prefer something else. ” “ Oh , no ; I have seen him eat of everything in Italy ; no doubt he does not feel inclined this evening. ” “ And besides , ” said the countess , “ accustomed as he is to burning climates , possibly he does not feel the heat as we do. ” “ I do not think that , for he has complained of feeling almost suffocated , and asked why the Venetian blinds were not opened as well as the windows. ” “ In a word , ” said Mercédès , “ it was a way of assuring me that his abstinence was intended. ” And she left the room .
I have come , therefore , express from Rome , to ask you for information. ” “ Sir , ” replied the mayor .
When he had perused the documents , an indefinable expression of pleasure lighted up his countenance , and looking at the major with a most peculiar smile , he said , in very excellent Tuscan : “ Then there is no longer any such thing , in Italy as being condemned to the galleys ? ” The major drew himself up to his full height .
He passed on to another—it , also , was empty , but the third which he tried was , from the dull sound it gave out , evidently full .
20185m “ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ although a companion is agreeable , perfect freedom is sometimes still more agreeable .
Nothing weakens a man more than these devilish strains .
Monsieur de Mazarin held us in prison , Monsieur du Vallon and myself , because we could not believe that he had sent us to England to quietly look on while they cut off the head of Charles I. , brother-in-law of the late king , your husband , the consort of Madame Henrietta , your sister and your guest , and because we did all that we could do to save the life of the royal martyr .
There was once in the Rue des Tournelles a house known by all the sedan chairmen and footmen of Paris , and yet , nevertheless , this house was neither that of a great lord nor of a rich man .
The other was in a feminine hand , long , and crossed .
Around this opening , which had , possibly , for ages permitted a free entrance to the brilliant moonbeams that now illumined the vast pile , grew a quantity of creeping plants , whose delicate green branches stood out in bold relief against the clear azure of the firmament , while large masses of thick , strong fibrous shoots forced their way through the chasm , and hung floating to and fro , like so many waving strings .
Near Paris , is it not ? ” “ Very near , only half a league from the Barriers , —it is at Auteuil. ” “ At Auteuil ? ” said Villefort ; “ true , Madame de Villefort told me you lived at Auteuil , since it was to your house that she was taken .
“ If you are willing , gentlemen , I will sleep across your doorway , and you will then be certain that nobody can reach you. ” “ And on what will you sleep ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
You do not know the Italian nobility ; the Cavalcanti are all descended from princes. ” “ Have they any fortune ? ” “ An enormous one. ” “ What do they do ? ” “ Try to spend it all .
Devil take him ! ” Then he said aloud : “ The queen , my lord ?
I present them ; but my correspondent has disappeared .
Edmond , at the approach of his patron , respectfully placed the arm of his affianced bride within that of M. Morrel , who , forthwith conducting her up the flight of wooden steps leading to the chamber in which the feast was prepared , was gayly followed by the guests , beneath whose heavy tread the slight structure creaked and groaned for the space of several minutes .
Don ’ t condemn it from appearances ; you will find a horse in the stables quite as good as this. ” “ The same password ? ” “ Exactly. ” “ Adieu , master ! ” “ A good journey , gentlemen !
I know not why , but I feel that this crime—— ” “ You acknowledge , then , the existence of the crime ? ” “ Yes , I see too plainly that it does exist .
now shall I tell you something ? ” added Athos , coolly .
Mercédès and Albert were in that room .
“ No , ” replied the soldier , tenacious in his credulity ; “ he has foretold many things which have come to pass ; for instance , that the queen would have a son ; that Monsieur Coligny would be killed in a duel with the Duc de Guise ; and finally , that the coadjutor would be made cardinal .
Her mouth was mute ; but her eyes spoke with their inexpressible eloquence , supplicating by turns each of those on whom she looked .
de Monte Cristo receives my apology .
and must I lose the one to save the other ?
Do you think Emmanuel would oblige me ? ” “ I will answer for him , count. ” “ Well ?
Listen to me , rather than add to my destruction , rather than add to my ignominy ! ” “ If you have merited this shame , madame , if you have incurred this ignominy , you must submit to it as an offering to God. ” “ What do you say ?
“ Shall I open the secretaire ? ” asked Valentine .
If they ask it what have I to say ? ” “ That is true , ” murmured Mazarin , in a low tone , “ but as thy life is not mine I suppose I must buy it , must I not ? ” and sighing deeply he began to turn the hoop of his ring outside again .
And , whatever people may say , ” continued Caderousse , in his native language , which was not altogether devoid of rude poetry , “ I can not help being more frightened at the idea of the malediction of the dead than the hatred of the living. ” “ Imbecile ! ” exclaimed La Carconte .
“ Excuse me , sir , ” said Baptistin , who had followed his master with indescribable terror , “ but I think I see a carriage down there under the trees. ” Monte Cristo sprang lightly from the carriage , and offered his hand to assist Emmanuel and Maximilian .
“ Yes ; if you think existence worth anything to a man of twenty , as you are , and who may hope for everything , being handsome and brave , as you are. ” “ Wretch , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ speak quickly !
Only imagine what happiness that would afford me .
The great are often ungrateful. ” “ Very true , ” said D ’ Artagnan , fixing his eyes , in spite of himself , on the queen ’ s diamond , which Mazarin wore on his finger .
The woman screamed , and cried for help ; but her cries were soon stifled .
Athos , therefore , commanded Bazin to fasten up his horse and that of Aramis in the same manner .
Albert looked at his two friends , not timidly , but in a way that appeared to ask their opinion of what he had just done .
“ _Allegro ! _ ” he called out to the postilions at every ascent .
Just then , Madame de Villefort , in the act of slipping on her dressing-gown , threw aside the drapery and for a moment stood motionless , as though interrogating the occupants of the room , while she endeavored to call up some rebellious tears .
We fetched our cushions from the other end of the cavern , and sat down by Selim .
I would rather find it triply bolted. ” And , indeed , the little note and pin upon the table confirmed , or rather corroborated , the sad truth .
He crept from his hole and stood , hidden by the black drapery , beneath the scaffold .
He made Morrel wait in the antechamber , although he had no one with him , for the simple reason that the king ’ s procureur always makes everyone wait , and after passing a quarter of an hour in reading the papers , he ordered M. Morrel to be admitted .
Five minutes afterward he entered the hotel of La Chevrette , where pretty Madeleine , the hostess , came to him .
One day , too , when my wife was ill , he gave me a prescription which cured her. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said the doctor , “ I did not know that I had a rival ; but I hope , governor , that you will show him all proper respect in consequence. ” “ Yes , yes , make your mind easy , he shall be decently interred in the newest sack we can find .
“ I am a Frondist from my heart .
“ Do not think I wish to turn you out , my dear Debray , ” continued Danglars ; “ oh , no , not at all .
Madame , wait at the door , whilst I shall be at the head of the king ’ s bed , ready to die for him. ” Laporte went out ; the queen remained standing near the hangings , whilst D ’ Artagnan glided behind the curtains .
The travelers then comprehended that there must be some reason why the unknown preserved such a silence , and ceased to address themselves to him .
Although weakened , the young man ’ s brain instantly responded to the idea that haunts all prisoners—liberty !
He is black , and can not speak , ” returned Monte Cristo .
“ ’ Tis then the devil that pursues ! ” he cried ; drawing his sword and preparing to attack the new foe .
In the first place he himself furbished a sword , which he drew from its perfumed leather sheath ; he examined it to see if its hilt was well guarded and if the blade was firmly attached to the hilt .
“ Oh , unhappy woman ! ” cried the commissary .
“ Jump then , Monsieur Pistache. ” But Pistache , as at first , turned round on his legs and stood with his back to the cane .
He knit his brows and went direct to the tapestry , which he pushed aside .
The notes reminded the men that the children , women , and old men whom they allowed to die were their sons , their wives , and their fathers , and that it would be more just for everyone to be reduced to the common misery , in order that equal conditions should give birth to unanimous resolutions .
The Riot becomes a Revolution .
If I should disturb a rendezvous , that would not be the best means of commencing an acquaintance. ” Meantime the young woman continued to advance , counting the houses and windows .
“ No , I do not jest , _mordieu ! _ I should like to have seen you in my place !
“ Sire , —— ” stammered the baron .
you see my strength fails me ; you see plainly I can not walk .
The two men followed the company , and on leaving the Faubourg St. Antoine , mounted two horses properly equipped , which a servant without livery had waiting for them .
“ Be so good as to collect and throw us back our balls , ” said the duke .
But let us first settle the question as to its being the interest of anyone to hinder you from being captain of the _Pharaon_ .
And yet , frightful though this spot may be , it is looked upon as a kind of paradise by the men whose days are numbered ; it is so rare for them to leave the Lions ’ Den for any other place than the barrier Saint-Jacques , the galleys !
This treasure exists , Dantès , and if I have not been allowed to possess it , you will .
He could not do this , he whose past life was so short , whose present so melancholy , and his future so doubtful .
Villefort immediately rose from table and quitted the room upon the plea of urgent business ; he soon , however , returned , his whole face beaming with delight .
“ And I , too , ” added Aramis .
“ Good , ” answered Grimaud ; and he went right to the prisoner .
All at once there ’ s a noise like a cannon—that ’ s the air blowing up the deck .
Felton and he addressed Patrick , the duke ’ s confidential lackey , at the same moment .
That happened , as I told you , in 1829 .
Fernand dashed his on the ground .
Well , before dying , I wish to see my son-in-law .
Dantès ’ first impulse was to escape , but fortunately he did not attempt it .
These notes had all the effect that he who wrote them could expect , in that they induced a great number of the inhabitants to open private negotiations with the royal army .
The marquis will give you some papers which will certify this fact , and authorize you to appear under that name in the Parisian world .
I suppose you have a blue ribbon in your pocket ? ” “ Yes , madame ; I have that of the Garter , which King Charles I. gave me some days before he died. ” “ Come , I am growing an old woman ! ” said the duchess , pensively .
Beyond Portsmouth the sea was covered with vessels whose masts , like a forest of poplars despoiled by the winter , bent with each breath of the wind .
But it seems you have come back rich , my boy , ” continued the tailor , looking askance at the handful of gold and silver which Dantès had thrown on the table .
Chapter LI .
You prohibited my mentioning my father ’ s name to her , but perhaps she will allude to him of her own accord in the course of the recital , and you have no idea how delighted I should be to hear our name pronounced by such beautiful lips. ” Monte Cristo turned to Haydée , and with an expression of countenance which commanded her to pay the most implicit attention to his words , he said in Greek , “ Πατρὸς μὲν ἄτην μήζε τὸ ὄνομα προδότου καὶ προδοσίαν εἰπὲ ἡμῖν , ” —that is , “ Tell us the fate of your father ; but neither the name of the traitor nor the treason. ” Haydée sighed deeply , and a shade of sadness clouded her beautiful brow .
You understand now that if he were to get rid of the animal before the time named , he would not only lose his bet , but people would say he was afraid ; and a brave captain of Spahis can not risk this , even to gratify a pretty woman , which is , in my opinion , one of the most sacred obligations in the world. ” “ You see my position , madame , ” said Morrel , bestowing a grateful smile on Monte Cristo .
Then , with a hasty movement , he tore open his coat , which seemed to stifle him , and flew from the room like a madman ; his footstep was heard one moment in the corridor , then the rattling of his carriage-wheels as he was driven rapidly away .
“ My dear friends , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ give your swords to Monsieur Mouston , who will return them to you at the proper time and place , and do not forget you are our prisoners. ” It was not long before they joined the escort .
Ten young descendants of Marius and the Gracchi , barefooted and out at elbows , with one hand resting on the hip and the other gracefully curved above the head , stared at the traveller , the post-chaise , and the horses ; to these were added about fifty little vagabonds from the Papal States , who earned a pittance by diving into the Tiber at high water from the bridge of St. Angelo .
Lucullus dines with Lucullus. ” Porthos looked at the bottle , which was near him , and hoped that with wine , bread , and cheese , he might make a dinner ; but wine was wanting , the bottle was empty .
“ Pack up all you want for a journey of a fortnight , and follow me. ” “ But I can not leave Paris just now without knowing— ” Aramis stopped .
The field of battle , instead , therefore , of being at Saint Denis or at Charenton , will be near Compiegne or Villars-Cotterets. ” “ The prince will vanquish you , as he has always done. ” “ ’ Tis possible ; my lord ; but before an engagement ensues we shall move your eminence to another castle belonging to our friend Du Vallon , who has three .
D ’ Artagnan uttered a cry of surprise , which was not quite free from joy .
What have you done with her , then , if you have her no longer ? ” “ They have abducted her , monsieur. ” “ They have abducted her ?
“ Happy rogue , ” said Caderousse ; “ you are going to find your servants , your horses , your carriage , and your betrothed ! ” “ Yes , ” said Andrea .
But mark the distinction with which he is treated ; instead of being knocked on the head as you would be if once they caught hold of you , he is simply sentenced to be guillotined , by which means , too , the amusements of the day are diversified , and there is a spectacle to please every spectator. ” “ Without reckoning the wholly unexpected one I am preparing to surprise them with. ” “ My good friend , ” said the man in the cloak , “ excuse me for saying that you seem to me precisely in the mood to commit some wild or extravagant act. ” “ Perhaps I am ; but one thing I have resolved on , and that is , to stop at nothing to restore a poor devil to liberty , who has got into this scrape solely from having served me .
Hold , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , turning toward the door , which had just opened , “ here is Monsieur du Vallon , who comes with his coat torn. ” “ Yes , but in exchange , ” said Porthos , covered with perspiration and soiled by dust , “ in exchange , I have torn many skins .
Ah , sir , do leave a few crowns for me at the gate that I may have some things I am in need of ! ” “ It shall be done , ” replied Bertuccio .
de Saint-Méran ? ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ then this house belonged to M. de Saint-Méran before you bought it ? ” “ It appears so , ” replied Monte Cristo .
What the devil !
She terminated it by an action which left no doubt as to the nature of this conversation ; this was a blow with her fan , applied with such force that the little feminine weapon flew into a thousand pieces .
“ Ah , yes ! ” said Mousqueton .
“ Ah ! ” thought the Gascon ; “ he looks displeased .
We were present at the scene in which the two captives were confronted with each other .
There is here no question of crime or treason .
Nothing in the two small chambers forming the apartments remained as it had been in the time of the elder Dantès ; the very paper was different , while the articles of antiquated furniture with which the rooms had been filled in Edmond ’ s time had all disappeared ; the four walls alone remained as he had left them .
D ’ Artagnan stood for an instant , mute , pensive and motionless ; then , as he went in , he saw the fair Madeleine , his hostess , standing on the threshold .
And for whom—for some _grisette_ , some chambermaid with whom I have trifled in some garrison ?
Then it became the turn of Athos , Porthos , and Aramis to mount guard with D ’ Artagnan when he was on duty .
It would have been easier to me merely to have thanked you for preserving my life and not to have uttered a word of all this. ” “ Doubtless , doubtless , Athos .
speak ! ” “ ’ Tis this : when we escape together , that I shall go everywhere and be always first ; for if my lord should be overtaken and caught , there ’ s every chance of his being brought back to prison , whereas if I am caught the least that can befall me is to be—hung. ” “ True , on my honor as a gentleman it shall be as thou dost suggest. ” “ Now , ” resumed Grimaud , “ I ’ ve only one thing more to ask—that your highness will continue to detest me. ” “ I ’ ll try , ” said the duke .
As for me , I must look after the anchoring , and dress the ship in mourning. ” The owner did not wait for a second invitation .
The second visit was a long one , and when he returned the kid was roasted and the repast ready .
I should injure the queen instead of serving her. ” “ Well , since the best motives are liable to misconstruction , the queen saw in your refusal nothing but a refusal—a distinct refusal she had also much to complain of you during the lifetime of the late cardinal ; yes , her majesty the queen—— ” Rochefort smiled contemptuously .
I thought you wished them to forget you ? ” “ If they did not speak of me , I am sure they thought about me , and I am in despair. ” “ How will that affect you , since Mademoiselle Danglars was not among the number here who thought of you ?
Mercédès , although deposed from the exalted position she had occupied , lost in the sphere she had now chosen , like a person passing from a room splendidly lighted into utter darkness , appeared like a queen , fallen from her palace to a hovel , and who , reduced to strict necessity , could neither become reconciled to the earthen vessels she was herself forced to place upon the table , nor to the humble pallet which had become her bed .
“ We were about a third of the way across the river when the cord of the ferryboat broke .
The quick eye of Albert caught the involuntary start with which his friend beheld the new arrival , and , turning to him , he said hastily : “ Do you know the woman who has just entered that box ? ” “ Yes ; what do you think of her ? ” “ Oh , she is perfectly lovely—what a complexion !
Nobody knows him .
What these happy persons took for reality was but a dream ; but it was a dream so soft , so voluptuous , so enthralling , that they sold themselves body and soul to him who gave it to them , and obedient to his orders as to those of a deity , struck down the designated victim , died in torture without a murmur , believing that the death they underwent was but a quick transition to that life of delights of which the holy herb , now before you , had given them a slight foretaste. ” “ Then , ” cried Franz , “ it is hashish !
Have you never heard that Queen Anne of Austria was once saved from the greatest danger ever incurred by a queen ? ” “ Yes , at the time of her relations with Monsieur de Buckingham ; it had to do in some way with certain studs and diamonds. ” “ Well , it was that affair , madame ; these men are the ones who saved her ; and I smile with pity when I reflect that if the names of those gentlemen are unknown to you it is because the queen has forgotten them , who ought to have made them the first noblemen of the realm. ” “ Well , then , my lord , they must be found ; but what can four men , or rather three men do—for I tell you , you must not count on Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” “ It will be one valiant sword the less , but there will remain still three , without reckoning my own ; now four devoted men around the king to protect him from his enemies , to be at his side in battle , to aid him with counsel , to escort him in flight , are sufficient , not to make the king a conqueror , but to save him if conquered ; and whatever Mazarin may say , once on the shores of France your royal husband may find as many retreats and asylums as the seabird finds in a storm. ” “ Seek , then , my lord , seek these gentlemen ; and if they will consent to go with you to England , I will give to each a duchy the day that we reascend the throne , besides as much gold as would pave Whitehall .
Now , do you want a horse , or will you go afoot ? ” “ Afoot , my lord ; I have served always in the infantry .
They made him get out , walk along the banks of the river , and then brought him to Teresa and Luigi , who were waiting for him in the catacombs of St. Sebastian. ” “ Well , ” said the count , turning towards Franz , “ it seems to me that this is a very likely story .
There is nothing now to do but to put the address to this letter. ” “ That is easily done , ” said Aramis .
The absence of Grimaud , whose name had never once been uttered by Athos , gave D ’ Artagnan uneasiness .
While Monsieur d ’ Arminges gave orders for the horses to be made ready for departure , the two young men ascended to the upper windows of the house and saw in the direction of Marsin and of Lens a large body of infantry and cavalry .
Ah , since the dangers I incur on my own account can not stop you , think of those you may yourself run ! ” “ Me ? ” “ Yes ; there is peril of imprisonment , risk of life in knowing me. ” “ Then I will not leave you. ” “ Monsieur ! ” said the young woman , supplicating him and clasping her hands together , “ monsieur , in the name of heaven , by the honor of a soldier , by the courtesy of a gentleman , depart !
“ It is enough , ” replied the prince .
“ In order that his wounds might be examined he was undressed , and his clothes were thrown into a corner , where the police picked them up , with the exception of the waistcoat , which they overlooked. ” Andrea turned pale , and drew towards the door ; he saw a cloud rising in the horizon , which appeared to forebode a coming storm .
D ’ Artagnan searched his pockets , and took from one of them the order for the passage .
How perfectly he remembered his former entrance into that very room !
“ Haul taut. ” They obeyed .
The cries died away in groans , and next morning , as soon as Wasilio ’ s wife could muster up courage to venture abroad , she caused the door of our dwelling to be opened by the public authorities , when Assunta , although dreadfully burnt , was found still breathing ; every drawer and closet in the house had been forced open , and the money stolen .
“ Do not be alarmed , M. Noirtier , ” said d ’ Avrigny ; “ I am going to take my patient into the next room to bleed him ; this sort of attack is very frightful to witness. ” And taking Barrois under the arms , he dragged him into an adjoining room ; but almost immediately he returned to fetch the lemonade .
“ You , my dear Chevalier d ’ Herblay , ” he said , “ are the Fronde incarnate .
The coadjutor possessed , perhaps , as much wit as all those put together who were assembled at the court to laugh at him .
Maximilian stared for a moment at the corpse , gazed all around the room , then upon the two men ; he opened his mouth to speak , but finding it impossible to give utterance to the innumerable ideas that occupied his brain , he went out , thrusting his hands through his hair in such a manner that Villefort and d ’ Avrigny , for a moment diverted from the engrossing topic , exchanged glances , which seemed to say , — “ He is mad ! ” But in less than five minutes the staircase groaned beneath an extraordinary weight .
I acted well as a man , but you have acted better than man .
“ It is probable you are ignorant of this little fact , ” said Athos .
“ You may retire , ” said Milady .
They must be enemies. ” “ He is right , ” said Porthos ; “ battle .
“ Obey , ” said Noirtier ’ s intelligent eye .
“ Come , ” said the count , smiling with his own peculiar smile , “ not so bad for a man who is to be shot at seven o ’ clock tomorrow morning. ” Vampa looked at Albert with a kind of admiration ; he was not insensible to such a proof of courage .
“ Oh , no ; it is useless .
“ I mean spinach , ” replied Aramis ; “ but on your account I will add some eggs , and that is a serious infraction of the rule—for eggs are meat , since they engender chickens. ” “ This feast is not very succulent ; but never mind , I will put up with it for the sake of remaining with you. ” “ I am grateful to you for the sacrifice , ” said Aramis ; “ but if your body be not greatly benefited by it , be assured your soul will. ” “ And so , Aramis , you are decidedly going into the Church ?
If it is written yonder , in Heaven , that the Duc de Beaufort is to escape , he will escape ; and all the precautions of the cardinal will not prevent it. ” Mazarin started .
Robert Macaire is the hero of two favorite melodramas— “ Chien de Montargis ” and “ Chien d ’ Aubry ” —and the name is applied to bold criminals as a term of derision .
I dread almost as much to receive any tidings of my vessel as to remain in doubt .
But , extraordinary to relate , the father did not say , “ Thank you , my child , ” nor did the daughter smile at her father .
The king pointed this out .
In the course of his morning ’ s walk he collected two or three small branches from a tree and found a small piece of broken glass , a discovery that quite delighted him .
That Count of Monte Cristo is an original , who loves to look at the sky even at night. ” “ And where do the servants sleep ? ” “ Oh , they have a house to themselves .
But that ’ s more than dislike , that ’ s ingratitude !
On the bank of the river the executioner approached Milady , and bound her hands and feet .
Have you been slightly dazzled at the sudden fusion of my ingots ?
In fact , at one of the doors which opened into the queen ’ s apartment appeared the pretty Mme .
“ Give it to me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who when the gate was open deposited the key in his pocket , reckoning upon returning by that gate .
There are no tears in my eyes , nor is there fever in my veins , yet I see you suffer—you , Maximilian , whom I love as my own son .
Who could ever have believed it ! ” A moment afterwards Julie saw him go upstairs carrying two or three heavy ledgers , a portfolio , and a bag of money .
Their repast consisted apparently of bread and sausages .
I have never seen her from that day .
That is a long time ; but it is something that you believe so .
The corvette must now , I think , be on her way to Fécamp , must she not ? ” 20333m “ Certainly , your excellency ; I saw her put to sea the same evening we quitted Marseilles. ” “ And the yacht. ” “ Was ordered to remain at Martigues. ” “ ’ Tis well .
“ Baroness , ” said Danglars , “ give me leave to present to you the Count of Monte Cristo , who has been most warmly recommended to me by my correspondents at Rome .
He brought with him the woman of whom he had spoken the evening before , and who had just arrived ; this woman entered , and approaching Milady ’ s bed , offered her services .
Dividing the Proceeds Chapter 107 .
Although he felt himself ably supported , the young man was not without a little uneasiness as he ascended the great staircase , step by step .
For an instant , without an exclamation , without a cry for help , Athos tried to sustain himself on the surface of the waters , but the weight dragged him down ; he disappeared by degrees ; soon nothing was to be seen except his long , floating hair ; then both men disappeared and the bubbling of the water , which , in its turn , was soon effaced , alone indicated the spot where these two had sunk .
The window whence the noise proceeded was opposite the opening by which the count could see into the dressing-room .
“ General Oliver Cromwell. ” The four friends looked at one another .
The young man was opening the door of the stable .
how do I know ?
I have a very good cook , and he is not to be my heir ; I have full and perfect confidence in him .
“ Oh , lackadaisy !
Here ’ s a good opportunity for getting something better than a diamond. ” “ You are right , D ’ Artagnan ; I held a similar project , but as I had not nor ever shall have your fruitful , vigorous imagination , the idea was suggested to me .
But is there anything impossible for my D ’ Artagnan , the noble and loyal gentleman ? ” “ Oh , I can not believe you ! ” “ Well , read , then ! ” said the unhappy young woman , in the excess of her pride and joy , presenting a letter to Milady .
Morrel shook his head .
He then returned with the same slow step and said : “ Go and tell the dying man that he must be patient .
No , in truth you are no visionary , my dear friend , and now I think of it—you—yes , i ’ faith , you ’ re right—those delicate , yet firm-set lips , those eyes which seem always at the command of the intellect and never of the heart !
We started a stag of ten branches .
Aramis , whom we have sent for ! ” “ That ’ s true , ” said Athos ; “ we must wait for Aramis. ” At that moment Aramis entered .
These baskets contained four pyramids of most splendid fruit ; there were Sicily pine-apples , pomegranates from Malaga , oranges from the Balearic Isles , peaches from France , and dates from Tunis .
Milady had hastened her departure by an hour and a half .
She wore the picturesque costume of the Catalan fisherwomen , a red and black bodice , and golden pins in her hair .
Danglars asked for a knife and fork .
“ Well , Grimaud , my friend , have you seen anything ? ” asked the Gascon .
For my part , I always thought his poetry detestable , and I think I know something about poetry. ” “ Who is this officer , ” inquired Raoul of Athos , “ who is speaking ? ” “ Monsieur de Scudery , the author of ‘ Clelie , ’ and of ‘ Le Grand Cyrus , ’ which were composed partly by him and partly by his sister , who is now talking to that pretty person yonder , near Monsieur Scarron. ” Raoul turned and saw two faces just arrived .
Consequently he had appeared to believe all that the vainglorious Musketeer had told him , convinced that no friendship will hold out against a surprised secret .
A knot of rose-colored ribbons fell from his shoulder almost to the ground .
“ Where are you ? ” asked the valet-de-chambre , whose eyes , dazzled by the light , could not clearly distinguish our heroes in the gloom .
God knows , Planchet , that I should fly from a sight so sad if I did not wish to show my respect for the illustrious shadow of what was once the Comte de la Fere , whom we loved so much. ” Planchet shook his head and said nothing .
“ Only a few days , ” replied Monte Cristo .
“ The lights again !
At the third knock , however , steps were heard inside .
Well , undermine in them the miserable prejudice of respect and fear of kings ; teach your flocks that the queen is a tyrant ; and repeat often and loudly , so that all may know it , that the misfortunes of France are caused by Mazarin , her lover and her destroyer ; begin this work to-day , this instant even , and in three days I shall expect the result .
D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos , with a maniacal burst of laughter , “ guess what she had on her shoulder. ” “ How can I tell ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
There was no time to lose .
“ But , ” said Porthos , “ I think I have an idea , in my turn. ” “ Silence for Monsieur Porthos ’ s idea ! ” said Aramis .
With you , D ’ Artagnan , with you , Porthos—all four reunited for the first time for twenty years—we would dare not only England , but the three kingdoms put together ! ” “ And did you promise the queen , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , petulantly , “ to storm the Tower of London , to kill a hundred thousand soldiers , to fight victoriously against the wishes of the nation and the ambition of a man , and when that man is Cromwell ?
“ Sign , my lord , ” and he gave him a pen .
D ’ Artagnan was a physiognomist .
He could not cease gazing at and kissing the sweet girl .
“ Ah , that , ” said the prince , “ I understand that language thoroughly ; and since he is Italian I will myself continue the examination .
The only question was , had she ten or twelve ?
But that must be a princess , at least—that lady with her Negro boy and her maid ! ” “ My God !
Comminges , Villequier and Guitant were behind her and the women again were behind the men .
have I not told you already that I had nothing to do with that ?
Let us drink heartily , and while we do so , tell me a little of what is going on in the world yonder. ” Chapter XXVII .
The carriage had been twenty minutes behind the time appointed .
“ Nothing , absolutely nothing , at present , but quitting Paris , as I told you , as soon as possible .
It was the second time he had been worsted , and this time on his own ground .
This point , settled , the duke turned to D ’ Artagnan .
Dantès heard joyfully the key grate in the lock ; he listened until the sound of steps died away , and then , hastily displacing his bed , saw by the faint light that penetrated into his cell , that he had labored uselessly the previous evening in attacking the stone instead of removing the plaster that surrounded it .
Athos remained sitting .
While we can not and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements , we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate .
“ Now , what is it they want to know ?
It would be noble to see Mademoiselle Noirtier de Villefort assuming the title of Madame Franz d ’ Épinay. ” Villefort shuddered and looked at Monte Cristo as if he wished to read in his countenance the real feelings which had dictated the words he had just uttered .
When he had mounted his phaeton , Monte Cristo turned , and seeing Bertuccio , “ What news ? ” said he .
A strange , incomprehensible , unearthly sound seemed to pervade the whole city ; one felt that something unusual and terrible was happening in all the streets , now dark as ocean ’ s most unfathomable caves .
What granted me ? —scarcely more .
The general proposed to cast lots for the swords , but the president said it was he who had given the provocation , and when he had given it he had supposed each would use his own arms .
“ Nothing is lost , then. ” “ And now , madame , till I see you again !
It was said that Madame de Longueville , for whom the prince had more than a brother ’ s affection and in whom he had confided , had been indiscreet .
I am for you not only a protector , but a friend ; not only a benefactor , but a father .
They left the chamber at the same time .
“ Sir , ” resumed the cardinal , “ you are to come with me , or rather , I am to go with you. ” “ I am at your command , my lord , ” returned D ’ Artagnan .
The door opened , and a dim light reached Dantès ’ eyes through the coarse sack that covered him ; he saw two shadows approach his bed , a third remaining at the door with a torch in its hand .
“ Exactly ! ” replied Mousqueton .
“ Project Gutenberg ” is a registered trademark .
Then , suddenly pausing , he added , “ Your pardon , sire , but my devotion to your majesty has made me forget , not the respect I have , for that is too deeply engraved in my heart , but the rules of etiquette. ” “ Go on , go on , sir , ” replied the king ; “ you have today earned the right to make inquiries here. ” “ Sire , ” interposed the minister of police , “ I came a moment ago to give your majesty fresh information which I had obtained on this head , when your majesty ’ s attention was attracted by the terrible event that has occurred in the gulf , and now these facts will cease to interest your majesty. ” “ On the contrary , sir , —on the contrary , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ this affair seems to me to have a decided connection with that which occupies our attention , and the death of General Quesnel will , perhaps , put us on the direct track of a great internal conspiracy. ” At the name of General Quesnel , Villefort trembled .
That , it seems , is where he meditates on state affairs. ” “ In that case , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I begin to believe that Monsieur de la Fere will receive the visit of his eminence ; he will , of course , have an escort. ” “ Yes—two soldiers. ” “ And will he talk thus of affairs in presence of two strangers ? ” “ The soldiers are Swiss , who understand only German .
“ He ’ s a fine looking fellow , ” said another ; “ if he had only a comb and hair-grease , he ’ d take the shine off the gentlemen in white kids. ” “ His coat looks nearly new , and his boots are brilliant .
Indeed , you could not belong to him .
Motionless against the dark tapestry , with her hair in disorder , she appeared like a horrid image of terror .
The queen entered .
You appear to forget yourself sadly. ” “ No , sir , ” said Albert , coldly ; “ there are circumstances in which one can not , except through cowardice , —I offer you that refuge , —refuse to admit certain persons at least. ” “ What is your errand , then , with me , sir ? ” “ I mean , ” said Albert , drawing near , and without apparently noticing Cavalcanti , who stood with his back towards the fireplace— “ I mean to propose a meeting in some retired corner where no one will interrupt us for ten minutes ; that will be sufficient—where two men having met , one of them will remain on the ground. ” Danglars turned pale ; Cavalcanti moved a step forward , and Albert turned towards him .
This was the price of the queen ’ s diamond .
what ? ” asked his friend .
Furious at being held in check by one whom he had considered a boy , he became warm and began to make mistakes .
Cease , then , to allow yourself to be duped by vain hopes , that even your own excellent heart refuses to believe in .
A mass of straight black hair , defying all attempts to train or curl it , fell over his projecting forehead , and hung down to his shoulders , giving increased vivacity to eyes already sparkling with a youthful love of mischief and fondness for every forbidden enjoyment .
“ Certainly ; his panegyric has been uttered. ” They parted , laughing , she turning back to gaze at the poor paralytic man with interest , he looking after her with eyes of love .
“ My brother , who made you his heir , died in three hours of a strange disorder which left livid traces all over the body .
The drum immediately beat , and the little troop advanced at charging pace .
I have not your confidence ; I fear the cardinal. ” “ Hush ! ” said Mme .
Has he not seen Monsieur d ’ Artagnan at my house ? ” “ Oh , yes , yes ; you are right .
“ Order , my lord , ” he said ; “ I am ready to obey your eminence. ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” continued the cardinal , “ you performed sundry superb exploits in the last reign. ” “ Your eminence is too good to remember such trifles in my favor .
The footsteps—they were double—paused at the door—and Dantès guessed that the two grave-diggers had come to seek him—this idea was soon converted into certainty , when he heard the noise they made in putting down the hand-bier .
It was this that made me start when you said the other day , at M. de Morcerf ’ s , that Messrs. Thomson & French were your bankers .
I see it and I thank you for it .
“ You have committed a piece of folly , ” said Athos , “ but it can ’ t be helped ; there is no drawing back .
You live on your estate , happy in golden mediocrity .
0175m “ But , ” said the abbé , “ I would speak to you of a large sum , amounting to five millions. ” “ The very sum you named , ” whispered the inspector in his turn .
A door opened , through which the attendant and the baron disappeared .
“ Silence ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , taking her hand , which , without thinking of it , she abandoned to him .
Chapter VI .
She tried to replace the arm , but it moved with a frightful rigidity which could not deceive a sick-nurse .
Mordaunt remained standing near the door .
Thieves might strip the house—it would annoy me less than to be disobeyed. ” Baptistin bowed .
_à propos_ of the cardinal , Monsieur de Tréville , I am vexed with you ! ” This was the chance at which M. de Tréville waited for the king .
Beyond that hedge , that garden , and that cottage , a dark mist enveloped with its folds that immensity where Paris slept—a vast void from which glittered a few luminous points , the funeral stars of that hell !
Let us be open with each other and sincere. ” “ What ! ” cried the Gascon , “ do you think , Athos , we can take leave , calmly , of two friends at a time not free from danger to you and Aramis ? ” “ No , ” answered Athos ; “ embrace me , my son. ” “ Zounds ! ” said Porthos , sobbing , “ I believe I ’ m crying ; but how foolish all this is ! ” Then they embraced .
The Three Musketeers Chapter I .
You will take it to the count , and say that , although in haste to attend the Chamber , my master came out of his way to have the honor of calling upon him. ” “ I never speak to his excellency , ” replied the concierge ; “ the valet de chambre will carry your message. ” The groom returned to the carriage .
M. de Villefort entered , followed by Barrois .
taste this , and the mines of Peru , Guzerat , and Golconda are opened to you .
“ On the contrary , ” replied Aramis , “ your opinion will be very valuable .
Never forget me. ” “ Oh !
“ We shall see , ” returned the other , smiling .
A Nightly Patrol .
All day he toiled on untiringly , and by the evening he had succeeded in extracting ten handfuls of plaster and fragments of stone .
At the foot of the hill the count dismounted and began to ascend by a little winding path , about eighteen inches wide ; when he reached the summit he found himself stopped by a hedge , upon which green fruit had succeeded to red and white flowers .
After a moment of dumb contemplation , during which his face became pale and his hair seemed to stand on end , he sprang towards the door , crying out : “ Doctor , doctor !
Every one grows childish in prison , but the character of Monsieur de Beaufort was particularly disposed to become so .
But D ’ Artagnan remained impassible .
pray , do people get into a passion at random at Noisy ?
“ You told me to open the door if I heard anyone cry out , ” said the soldier ; “ but you forgot to leave me the key .
March ! ” “ It seems that I am named La Bruyere , ” remarked D ’ Artagnan .
At two o ’ clock the tennis balls began , according to Grimaud ’ s directions , to take the direction of the moat , much to the joy of La Ramee , who marked fifteen whenever the duke sent a ball into the moat ; and very soon balls were wanting , so many had gone over .
My word as a gentleman never to say anything of you , never to do anything against you ; on your side , a solemn oath to remain neutral with respect to me .
“ Oh , yes , ” returned Monte Cristo ; “ I make no secret of it .
“ Nor I , nor I , ” chorused the sailors .
Bicarat was one of those iron men who never fell dead .
All their countenances were melancholy and gloomy , even the mild countenance of Aramis .
( “ Peste ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to Porthos .
“ You are a capital companion , D ’ Artagnan , ” said he ; “ your never-failing cheerfulness raises poor souls in affliction .
“ This philosophic reflection , ” thought he , “ will make a great sensation at M. de Saint-Méran ’ s ; ” and he arranged mentally , while Dantès awaited further questions , the antithesis by which orators often create a reputation for eloquence .
“ I do not know if the result will be as agreeable as you describe , but the thing does not appear to me as palatable as you say. ” “ Because your palate his not yet been attuned to the sublimity of the substances it flavors .
The reputation of being out of his mind , though harmlessly and even amusingly so , had procured for the abbé unusual privileges .
The bearers went on for twenty paces , then stopped , putting the bier down on the ground .
“ You were saying this , were you not ? ” “ Well , I own it. ” “ I will answer you. ” Villefort drew his armchair nearer to Madame Danglars ; then resting both hands upon his desk he said in a voice more hollow than usual : “ There are crimes which remain unpunished because the criminals are unknown , and we might strike the innocent instead of the guilty ; but when the culprits are discovered ” ( Villefort here extended his hand toward a large crucifix placed opposite to his desk ) — “ when they are discovered , I swear to you , by all I hold most sacred , that whoever they may be they shall die .
Father and Son Chapter 13 .
He denies himself nothing ; it may easily be seen he has been accustomed to live well. ” “ Never mind ; if his mistress abandons him , he will find friends , I will answer for it .
I yesterday engaged a servant , who had just left M. de Villefort—I intend sending him away tomorrow , for he eats so enormously , to make up for the fast imposed upon him by his terror in that house .
Are you aware that the mob have even suggested throwing up barricades in the Rue Saint Denis and the Rue Saint Antoine ? ” “ And what was Comminges saying to you in reply , my good Guitant ? ” “ My lord , ” said Comminges , “ I answered that to compose a Ligue only one ingredient was wanting—in my opinion an essential one—a Duc de Guise ; moreover , no generation ever does the same thing twice. ” “ No , but they mean to make a Fronde , as they call it , ” said Guitant .
“ Four hundred and seventy-five livres , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who reckoned like Archimedes .
The particular characteristic of this was that more songs were made than cannons fired during its continuance .
This path was formed in the shape of the figure of 8 , thus , in its windings , making a walk of sixty feet in a garden of only twenty .
The stranger was about to reply ; but at the moment he opened his mouth , D ’ Artagnan , who had heard all , precipitated himself over the threshold of the door .
If you will give at each of these relays your address in Paris , the four horses will follow you thither .
We shall be very unfortunate if , after meeting so often this evening , we should not succeed in meeting to-morrow. ” “ Oh , as to that , sir , ” replied Chatillon ( for it was he who , with Flamarens , was leaving the Duc de Beaufort ) , “ you may be assured ; for if we meet by night without seeking each other , much more shall we meet by day when wishing it. ” “ I hope that is true , ” said Aramis .
The soul forms its own horizons ; your soul is darkened , and consequently the sky of the future appears stormy and unpromising. ” “ That may possibly be true , ” said Maximilian , and he again subsided into his thoughtful mood .
Ah , yes ; you look at my room , my four straw chairs , my images , three francs each .
I feel , if this continues , ” said Mme .
“ Approach , and tell monsieur that it is possible to know beforehand all that he has not known. ” “ Sire , it was really impossible to learn secrets which that man concealed from all the world. ” “ Really impossible !
Another flash showed him four men clinging to the shattered mast and the rigging , while a fifth clung to the broken rudder .
“ Do you fear he will not understand ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Oh , we have so often spoken of you , that he knows exactly how I talk to you. ” Then turning to Maximilian , with an adorable smile ; although shaded by sorrow , — “ He knows everything I know , ” said she .
Noirtier , seeing Barrois in this pitiable condition , showed by his looks all the various emotions of sorrow and sympathy which can animate the heart of man .
courage ! ” The bell of the convent gate was sounded ; Milady was not mistaken .
Bonacieux was explaining her devotion , and that she had freed her from that prison ; and the letter he had received from the young woman , and her passage along the road of Chaillot like an apparition , were now explained .
Have the French attendants been summoned to await her coming ? ” Ali extended his hands towards the apartments destined for the fair Greek , which were so effectually concealed by means of a tapestried entrance , that it would have puzzled the most curious to have divined their existence .
Look , you may see it from here—at the foot of that little hill , that slated roof. ” “ Very well , ” said the gentleman .
He rose gently , so that his head was just above the round of the barrel , and under the large hat he recognized the pale face of Mordaunt .
Nevertheless , D ’ Artagnan was desirous of examining the appearance of this impertinent personage who ridiculed him .
You remember what a beautiful night it was ?
“ Art thou dangerously wounded , my dear Mousqueton ? ” he said .
“ But , ” cried Felton , “ that is a _fleur-de-lis_ which I see there. ” “ And therein consisted the infamy , ” replied Milady .
When I am insulted I do not faint ; I avenge myself ! ” And she made a sign for Kitty to leave the room .
“ ‘ No matter , ’ observed Caderousse , replacing the box in his pocket , ‘ someone else will purchase it. ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ continued the jeweller ; ‘ but someone else will not be so easy as I am , or content himself with the same story .
Peppino Chapter 115 .
I have the honor to inquire from your majesty what you desire Monsieur d ’ Herblay and myself to do in your service .
Athos , look at Mordaunt ’ s smile .
If you had only to deal with four men , D ’ Artagnan , I would allow you to go alone .
You have taken your revenge for the Rue Férou , and even exceeded it ; you ought to be satisfied. ” “ If your Majesty is so , ” said Tréville , “ we are. ” “ Oh , yes ; I am , ” added the king , taking a handful of gold from La Chesnaye , and putting it into the hand of D ’ Artagnan .
After having well beaten him , he forbade him to leave his service without his permission .
He could not be mistaken ; Milady was in it .
I like a favorable reception ; it expands the countenance , and those around me do not then appear so ugly .
How much have you left of your hundred pistoles , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ Of my hundred pistoles ?
She prepared the iced water which he was in the habit of constantly drinking , —for since his sojourn at the kiosk he had been parched by the most violent fever , —after which she anointed his white beard with perfumed oil , and lighted his chibouque , which he sometimes smoked for hours together , quietly watching the wreaths of vapor that ascended in spiral clouds and gradually melted away in the surrounding atmosphere .
Excuse me , Albert , —sorrow on your account , and delight with that noble girl , thus pursuing paternal vengeance .
This double error became an irresistible reality , and by one of the incomprehensible transports of youth , he bounded from his hiding-place , and with two strides , at the risk of being seen , at the risk of alarming Valentine , at the risk of being discovered by some exclamation which might escape the young girl , he crossed the flower-garden , which by the light of the moon resembled a large white lake , and having passed the rows of orange-trees which extended in front of the house , he reached the step , ran quickly up and pushed the door , which opened without offering any resistance .
He told himself that it was the enmity of man , and not the vengeance of Heaven , that had thus plunged him into the deepest misery .
I called to you , but you did not answer me ; I wished to follow you , but my horse was too much fatigued to go at the same pace with yours .
“ How unfortunate I am ! ” said she ; “ I have been here six months without the shadow of recreation .
“ I thought so , madame , ” stammered the young girl .
D ’ Artagnan , seeing him approach , drew his sword a foot out of the scabbard .
He recollected that there was a small furnished house to let in the Rue des Saints-Pères , where his mother would find a humble but decent lodging , and thither he intended conducting the countess .
There he is ! ” “ Somebody has disturbed him , without doubt , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The day , however , passed away ; and the evening came on slowly , but finally it came .
I remember too well how sometimes we were stopped for want of money , and but for that diamond , which I was obliged to sell , we should have remained on the road. ” “ The devil he does !
You abuse my cookery because you dine at the table d ’ hôte of the Hôtel des Princes , or the Café de Paris .
I knew very well that they tired out their executioners , but I did not believe them so strong against their lovers ! ’ “ Alas !
The four men stood motionless .
Don ’ t you see , my brave Felton ; don ’ t you see what I told you ?
To grief succeeded rage .
At the end of three-quarters of a league , within fifty paces of Festubert , a larger bloodstain appeared ; the ground was trampled by horses .
Porthos would have found it very difficult even to make him see that he was dying of hunger ; he has gone on his road as inexorable as fate and we must seek him somewhere else. ” They continued their route .
“ In that case I can give you proofs. ” “ No , sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and we place ourselves at your orders. ” “ Well , gentlemen , ” resumed Mordaunt , “ we must set out without delay , to-day is the last day granted me by the cardinal .
Speak. ” “ That your eminence will go at once to the queen. ” “ What for ? ” “ Merely to say these words : ‘ I am going to send Monsieur d ’ Artagnan away and I wish him to set out directly. ’ ” “ I told you , ” said Mazarin , “ that you had seen the queen. ” “ I had the honor of saying to your eminence that there had been some mistake. ” “ What is the meaning of that ? ” “ May I venture to repeat my prayer to your eminence ? ” “ Very well ; I will go .
“ I was worn out with fatigue .
I left the boat between Bellegarde and Beaucaire , and took the road to Nîmes. ” “ We are getting to the story now ? ” “ Yes , your excellency ; excuse me , but , as you will see , I only tell you what is absolutely necessary .
Coquenard had seen everything .
For was it not your fatal and sanguinary intention to destroy that son of whom M. de Morcerf was so proud ?
Beauchamp had not been seen since the day he visited Albert , and those of whom the latter inquired always told him he was out on a journey which would detain him some days .
The grating against the library-door aroused the young girl from the stupor in which she was plunged , and which almost amounted to insensibility .
Whoever had selected this retired portion of the grounds as the boundary of a walk , or as a place for meditation , was abundantly justified in the choice by the absence of all glare , the cool , refreshing shade , the screen it afforded from the scorching rays of the sun , that found no entrance there even during the burning days of hottest summer , the incessant and melodious warbling of birds , and the entire removal from either the noise of the street or the bustle of the mansion .
At nine o ’ clock the next morning , the drums beat to arms .
“ Yes. ” “ I am sure you are ; it is not very difficult to discover that. ” And the young girl smiled on her grandfather , as if he had been a child .
“ What are you doing ? ” asked Rochefort .
D ’ Artagnan bent forward , ready either to attack or to stand on his defense .
D ’ Artagnan thought it would suffice for him , and he sprang forward like a dart between them .
At nine o ’ clock , guided by Planchet , the little cavalcade set out , taking the route the carriage had taken .
“ Yes , he is a terrible antagonist .
‘ Oh , then , you were glad to hear that M. Morrel ( I didn ’ t dare to say Maximilian ) had been made an officer of the Legion of Honor ? ’ He signified assent ; only think of the poor old man ’ s being so pleased to think that you , who were a perfect stranger to him , had been made an officer of the Legion of Honor !
I was present during his last moments .
“ And I thank you ; have what you will ; ” and he made a sign to Franz to take what he pleased .
You will find it in the water you drink from the spring , in the fruit you pluck from the tree. ” “ But did you not say that my kind grandfather ’ s precaution had neutralized the poison ? ” “ Yes , but not against a strong dose ; the poison will be changed , and the quantity increased. ” He took the glass and raised it to his lips .
It was , indeed , the same color as the draught she had poured into the glass , and which Valentine had drunk ; it was indeed the poison , which could not deceive M. d ’ Avrigny , which he now examined so closely ; it was doubtless a miracle from heaven , that , notwithstanding her precautions , there should be some trace , some proof remaining to reveal the crime .
And is he still in love with the Catalane ? ” “ Over head and ears ; but , unless I am much mistaken , there will be a storm in that quarter. ” 0041m “ Explain yourself. ” “ Why should I ? ” “ It is more important than you think , perhaps .
I know not whom ; look and judge for yourself. ” “ Thank you , I understand .
“ And now , ” he said , “ may I inquire what are the orders with which your majesty deigns to honor me ? ” “ Take what rest you require , and remember that if you are not able to serve me here in Paris , you may be of the greatest service to me at Marseilles. ” “ Sire , ” replied Villefort , bowing , “ in an hour I shall have quitted Paris. ” “ Go , sir , ” said the king ; “ and should I forget you ( kings ’ memories are short ) , do not be afraid to bring yourself to my recollection .
Once on board we drop down the Thames and in two hours are on the open sea .
Tell the viscount so , and that tomorrow , before ten o ’ clock , I shall see what color his is. ” “ Then I have only to make arrangements for the duel , ” said Beauchamp .
The king , seeing that he did not reply , repeated his question .
The host remained standing in front of him , looking with a kind of involuntary admiration at his handsome face , combining both gravity and sweetness of expression .
But the sound of the clock had not died away when Germain announced , “ His excellency the Count of Monte Cristo. ” The involuntary start everyone gave proved how much Morcerf ’ s narrative had impressed them , and Albert himself could not wholly refrain from manifesting sudden emotion .
He thought the carriage was about to stop there .
“ Follow him , ” said Villefort to Dantès .
It is true that all was like a dream , but it was not the less frightful .
We have arrested Monsieur de Beaufort , but he is the least dangerous among them .
The face of the young woman was entirely unknown to her .
La Ramee ’ s mouth watered and he returned to the duke ’ s chamber rubbing his hands .
He reached the instrument he had placed on the stand , touched a spring , and immediately a pale light , just bright enough to render objects distinct , was reflected on his hands and countenance .
You may now retire .
It is incredible how these biscuit soak up wine !
Chapter XXX .
“ Now , my lord , ” said the poor man , “ let me have the poire d ’ angoisse .
“ What is that line ? ” cried Athos , whose vision was still rather obscured by the uncertain shades and demi-tints of daybreak .
“ _Peste ! _ ” returned Albert , “ I compliment you on it ; I have its fellow ” —he took his watch from his waistcoat pocket— “ and it cost me 3,000 francs. ” “ Let us hear the history , ” said Franz , motioning Signor Pastrini to seat himself .
“ Well ? ” asked Madame Danglars , with an anxiety easy to be understood .
The duke undid his belt and gave it to Grimaud , who tied La Ramee in such a way as to satisfy him .
“ What do you mean ?
Now , as the debate between these two nobles might last a long time , each becoming , naturally , more firm in his own opinion , M. de Tréville thought of an expedient which might terminate it quietly .
High heads expose themselves from afar , and the cardinal is longsighted. ” “ Well , ” said Porthos , “ in the first place make a bargain with the mercer , and a good bargain. ” “ That ’ s useless , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for I believe if he does not pay us , we shall be well enough paid by another party. ” At this moment a sudden noise of footsteps was heard upon the stairs ; the door was thrown violently open , and the unfortunate mercer rushed into the chamber in which the council was held .
The man in the mantle had kept his promise to the Transteverin , and there could now be no doubt that he was the count .
From their dress , covered with dust , and from a certain easy manner by means of which a man accustomed to travel is always recognizable , the two friends excited the attention of a few promenaders .
“ What is the matter , then , with this dear child ?
D ’ Arminges and Olivain and the two grooms then mounted their horses , and all four started off at a quick trot to rejoin Raoul and his companion .
“ Has the Corsican ogre broken loose ? ” cried a third .
“ And signed by whom—by the king ? ” And the cardinal pronounced these words with a singular expression of contempt .
“ As a punishment for the crime I had committed , ” answered Bertuccio .
As for Raoul , he remained bewildered with what he had seen , having been forbidden by D ’ Artagnan to leave the room until the tumult was over .
“ What do you mean to say ? ” “ I mean to say that I have a good reason , but that it is difficult to explain. ” “ You must be aware , at all events , that it is impossible for me to understand motives before they are explained to me ; but one thing at least is clear , which is , that you decline allying yourself with my family. ” “ No , sir , ” said Danglars ; “ I merely suspend my decision , that is all. ” “ And do you really flatter yourself that I shall yield to all your caprices , and quietly and humbly await the time of again being received into your good graces ? ” “ Then , count , if you will not wait , we must look upon these projects as if they had never been entertained. ” The count bit his lips till the blood almost started , to prevent the ebullition of anger which his proud and irritable temper scarcely allowed him to restrain ; understanding , however , that in the present state of things the laugh would decidedly be against him , he turned from the door , towards which he had been directing his steps , and again confronted the banker .
The coachman went up the Via di Ripetta and the Porta San Paolo ; and when they were two hundred yards outside , as the Frenchman became somewhat too forward , Beppo put a brace of pistols to his head , the coachman pulled up and did the same .
Anyone but a man of exhaustless thirst for knowledge would have had pity on seeing the steward ’ s extraordinary repugnance for the count ’ s projected drive without the walls ; but the count was too curious to let Bertuccio off from this little journey .
“ Have you seen the cardinal ? ” “ He sent for me , ” answered the mercer , proudly .
As we shall probably meet with him again in the course of our history , it may be well for our readers to be made at once acquainted with him .
D ’ Artagnan returned .
“ The fact is , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ if men are punished for imprudence and triviality , this poor king deserves punishment .
This circumstance pleased M. de Tréville much , as he thus became certain that no foreign suggestion could insinuate itself between M. de la Trémouille ’ s testimony and himself .
That ’ s a great story to tell me , Porthos !
There could be no doubt that all had been calculated and previously arranged ; Monte Cristo then was in league with his father ’ s enemies .
“ And yet what ? ” asked the abbé .
“ Go away as quick as you can , Maximilian , ” said Valentine , “ and stay till I send for you .
Afraid of making any inquiries at this house , D ’ Artagnan entered a small tavern at the corner of the street and asked for a cup of hypocras .
Four young men of the richest and noblest families of Rome accompanied them with that Italian freedom which has not its parallel in any other country in the world .
Porthos gained fifty pistoles from Groslow , and found him a more agreeable companion than he had at first believed him to be .
“ There ! ” he cried .
He therefore informed M. Morrel of his wish to quit the sea , and obtained a recommendation from him to a Spanish merchant , into whose service he entered at the end of March , that is , ten or twelve days after Napoleon ’ s return .
“ Ah !
At this name every one looked around , for his was already a very celebrated name .
It was six o ’ clock in the morning , the dawn was just breaking , and its feeble ray came into the dungeon , and paled the ineffectual light of the lamp .
His pallor was so peculiar , that it seemed to pertain to one who had been long entombed , and who was incapable of resuming the healthy glow and hue of life .
“ If there is an army on board it is not here that it is hidden .
He saw D ’ Artagnan ’ s movement , heard the sound of the click , and stopped at once .
“ So beautiful !
She is young ; she is beautiful ; she possesses all earthly seductions .
“ I do not jest , ” said Athos .
On arriving at the Hotel de Bouillon they came across a little troop of three cavaliers , who seemed to know every possible password ; for they walked without either guide or escort , and on arriving at the barricades had nothing to do but to speak to those who guarded them , who instantly let them pass with evident deference , due probably to their high birth .
Felton did not enter .
I was taken to Versailles ; for three months I struggled with death ; at last , as I seemed to cling to life , I was ordered to the South .
We have seen them at Villefort ’ s ; they proceeded then on their course .
That ’ s _your_ opinion ! ” replied Porthos .
A few minutes more and the troop passed over their heads .
“ Be calm , ” exclaimed Athos , “ for Heaven ’ s sake !
All had plainly seen a woman ’ s head appear at the window , but none of them , except Athos , knew Mme .
But the inflexibility of the procureur should stop there ; she would see him the next day , and if she could not make him fail in his duties as a magistrate , she would , at least , obtain all the indulgence he could allow .
But notwithstanding the serene sky , the gracefully formed boats , and the golden light in which the whole scene was bathed , the Count of Monte Cristo , wrapped in his cloak , could think only of this terrible voyage , the details of which were one by one recalled to his memory .
On reaching the courtyard , they heard the noise of a carriage which stopped at the gate .
“ You are doubtless provided with pistols , gentlemen ?
Then I must make a journey to see my family , in the lower part of Brittany , to obtain the sum necessary for my departure. ” Porthos observed a last struggle between love and avarice .
Jussac , anxious to put an end to this , springing forward , aimed a terrible thrust at his adversary , but the latter parried it ; and while Jussac was recovering himself , glided like a serpent beneath his blade , and passed his sword through his body .
“ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ let us drink to him who presides at the repast .
If he had not courage he had what is very like it , namely , pride .
I dread this marriage , Maximilian , as much as you. ” “ Thank you , my adored Valentine , thank you ; that is enough .
Porthos foamed with rage , and made a movement to rush after D ’ Artagnan .
I thought you were earning a living in Tuscany or Piedmont by acting as _facchino_ or _cicerone_ , and I pitied you sincerely , as I would a child of my own .
Well , I call you , and say to you : Friend Felton , John , my child , guard me , and more particularly guard yourself , against this woman .
Grimaud extended his arm , and by the bluish splendor of the fiery serpent they distinguished a little isolated house on the banks of the river , within a hundred paces of a ferry .
“ What can you expect ? ” replied Aramis , in a tone of resignation .
“ Cap de Diou !
The Apparition Chapter 101 .
They shook their heads .
[ 21 ] In Molière ’ s comedy , _Le Misanthrope_ .
“ Put it up again , my friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
I came to tell you that I hate you instinctively ; that it seems as if I had always known you , and always hated you ; and , in short , since the young people of the present day will not fight , it remains for us to do so .
“ No one will come , ” said she ; “ do not fear , there is our safeguard , ” pointing to the bed .
“ Ah , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I did not see that ; it was the sword of the Comte de Wardes which made that hole , when he gave me a good thrust in the breast. ” “ You are wounded ? ” asked Buckingham , as he opened the letter .
But why did she return to Tours without telling me anything ? ” “ Because she was in fear of being arrested. ” “ Why has she not written to me , then ? ” “ Because she was afraid of compromising you. ” “ D ’ Artagnan , you restore me to life ! ” cried Aramis .
we shall meet soon , I trust , in Paris , where you shall have your revenge. ” The duke , as he spoke , kissed his hand , spurred his horse into a gallop and disappeared , followed by his troop , who were soon lost in distance and darkness .
The innkeeper himself was a man of from forty to fifty-five years of age , tall , strong , and bony , a perfect specimen of the natives of those southern latitudes ; he had dark , sparkling , and deep-set eyes , hooked nose , and teeth white as those of a carnivorous animal ; his hair , like his beard , which he wore under his chin , was thick and curly , and in spite of his age but slightly interspersed with a few silvery threads .
We can go to Brussels , Liège , Aix-la-Chapelle ; then up the Rhine to Strasbourg .
There they had a bit of a skirmish in getting rid of the duties ; the excise was , in truth , the everlasting enemy of the patron of _La Jeune Amélie_ .
There he stopped , breathless and panting .
What , then , to do ?
Monarchs are only strong by the assistance of the aristocracy , but aristocracy can not survive without the countenance of monarchs .
Let us try not to jest , if we can .
“ And this is all ? ” said she ; “ and you stopped there ? ” “ Oh , no , ” said Villefort ; “ I never ceased to search and to inquire .
If you received the work on a physical medium , you must return the medium with your written explanation .
Have you not observed that the captain of your little vessel , on entering the roadstead , sent forward , in order to obtain permission to enter the port , a little boat bearing his logbook and the register of his voyagers ?
It must have been delirium ; she fancies , too , that she saw a phantom enter her chamber and even heard the noise it made on touching her glass. ” “ It is singular , ” said the doctor ; “ I was not aware that Madame de Saint-Méran was subject to such hallucinations. ” “ It is the first time I ever saw her in this condition , ” said Valentine ; “ and this morning she frightened me so that I thought her mad ; and my father , who you know is a strong-minded man , himself appeared deeply impressed. ” “ We will go and see , ” said the doctor ; “ what you tell me seems very strange. ” The notary here descended , and Valentine was informed that her grandmother was alone .
He was Des Roches le Masle , canon of Notre Dame , who had formerly been valet of a bishop , who introduced him to his Eminence as a perfectly devout man .
“ Upon my word , ” said Albert , “ you seem to be on excellent terms with the beautiful countess. ” “ You are mistaken in thinking so , ” returned Franz calmly ; “ but you merely fall into the same error which leads so many of our countrymen to commit the most egregious blunders , —I mean that of judging the habits and customs of Italy and Spain by our Parisian notions ; believe me , nothing is more fallacious than to form any estimate of the degree of intimacy you may suppose existing among persons by the familiar terms they seem upon ; there is a similarity of feeling at this instant between ourselves and the countess—nothing more. ” “ Is there , indeed , my good fellow ?
“ Do you see that street ?
The queen was in the midst of her women—Mme .
“ Oh ! ” he cried , “ Athos !
“ It was the fault of that blockhead Pastrini , that I did not sooner assist you in your distress .
He raised him , almost stifling him as he drew him through the aperture , at the risk of flaying him in the passage .
A few minutes after twelve o ’ clock Bernouin knocked at the queen ’ s bedroom door , having come by the cardinal ’ s secret corridor .
“ And when can I see this young lady , for whom I already feel so great a sympathy ? ” asked Milady .
So I have a little adventure to propose to you when the count is gone .
At length D ’ Artagnan , in pursuing his researches , found near the wall a woman ’ s torn glove .
But what is the meaning of all these questions ? ” “ To tell you , my lord , that the moment has now arrived when , with a single word , you may recompense all these services. ” “ Oh ! ” said Oliver , with a slight curl of his lip , “ I forgot that every service merits some reward and that up to this moment you have not been paid. ” “ Sir , I can take my pay at this moment , to the full extent of my wishes. ” “ How is that ? ” “ I have the payment under my hand ; I almost possess it. ” “ What is it ?
what is it ? ” “ The child conceals it. ” “ But where did he find it ? ” “ In his mother ’ s laboratory. ” “ Does his mother then , keep poisons in her laboratory ? ” “ How can I tell ?
The number of lights had been intentionally diminished , but the young woman could not conceal the traces of the fever which had devoured her for two days .
Then he determined to go up .
At this Fernand recollected her threat of dying if Edmond died , and dropped again heavily on his seat .
“ Who is that Swiss ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
I did not lose sight of him for an instant .
Something like a smile was perceptible on Madame de Villefort ’ s countenance .
On the contrary , I take you to be a worthy and accomplished gentleman .
“ No ! —you undertook to do so. ” “ True , ” replied Danglars ; “ the French have the superiority over the Spaniards , that the Spaniards ruminate , while the French invent. ” “ Do you invent , then , ” said Fernand impatiently .
Felton entered Milady ’ s apartment .
“ You have accomplished these different crimes with impudent address , but which could only deceive those whose affections for you blinded them .
“ Yes , you talk like a child—I repeat the word .
The king saved—we shall assemble our friends together—we will head the Puritans—reconquer England ; we shall re-enter London—place him securely on his throne—— ” “ And he will make us dukes and peers , ” said Porthos , whose eyes sparkled with joy at this imaginary prospect .
upon my word , you did well to come back. ’ “ ‘ Nevertheless , ’ replied the jeweller , ‘ if by the time I have finished my supper the tempest has at all abated , I shall make another start. ’ “ ‘ It ’ s the mistral , ’ said Caderousse , ‘ and it will be sure to last till tomorrow morning. ’ He sighed heavily .
30175m “ Yes , ” looked the invalid , his eye beaming with delight at the ready interpretation of his meaning .
Grimaud turned round with a jerk , recognized me , and pointed to the man in the mask .
“ Yes , ” he murmured , — “ yes , be satisfied. ” His head dropped upon his chest , and in this position he paced his study ; then he threw himself , dressed as he was , upon a sofa , less to sleep than to rest his limbs , cramped with cold and study .
He will set sail tomorrow morning. ” * Fort La Pointe , or Fort Vasou , was not built until 1672 , nearly 50 years later .
“ Here , ” said she , “ you see I have thought of everything ; with this cloak you will not be cold. ” “ But you ? ” “ Oh , I am never cold , you know !
excellency , ” returned Bertuccio , joining his hands , and shaking his head in a manner that would have excited the count ’ s laughter , had not thoughts of a superior interest occupied him , and rendered him attentive to the least revelation of this timorous conscience .
They are men who do nothing for nothing. ” “ You know the only reply that I desire , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ the only one worthy of you and of me ! ” And he drew nearer to her .
They heard the guard going its rounds .
I sent them to carry aid to King Charles and they performed prodigies to save him ; had it not been for an adverse destiny , that beloved monarch would this day have been among us. ” “ But since they served your eminence so well , why are they , my lord cardinal , in prison ? ” “ In prison ? ” said Mazarin , “ and when has Rueil been a prison ? ” “ Ever since there were prisoners in it , ” answered Comminges .
I supplicate you , I implore you on my knees—let me die , and my last sigh shall be a blessing for my preserver. ” Hearing that voice , so sweet and suppliant , seeing that look , so timid and downcast , Felton reproached himself .
I have already recorded sentence of death , five or six times , against the movers of political conspiracies , and who can say how many daggers may be ready sharpened , and only waiting a favorable opportunity to be buried in my heart ? ” “ Gracious heavens , M. de Villefort , ” said Renée , becoming more and more terrified ; “ you surely are not in earnest. ” “ Indeed I am , ” replied the young magistrate with a smile ; “ and in the interesting trial that young lady is anxious to witness , the case would only be still more aggravated .
“ What is he going to do ? ” thought Villefort , whose position demanded much reserve , but who was longing to know what his father ’ s intentions were .
“ Courage ! ” he whispered to Porthos , as they proceeded .
Monsieur Porthos has just been to your house and has left this for you , saying that the letter was important and must be given to you before you left. ” “ Good , ” said Aramis , taking a purse which Bazin presented to him .
“ Yes , a base coward , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan ; “ but she—she was very beautiful. ” “ What _she ? _ ” demanded the host .
to the Seine with the officer ! ” were heard above all the noise , deafening as it was .
It appears that in falling , ” continued Athos , with some hesitation , “ he broke his thigh. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said the cardinal ; “ and you , Monsieur Porthos ? ” “ I , monseigneur , knowing that dueling is prohibited—I seized a bench , and gave one of those brigands such a blow that I believe his shoulder is broken. ” “ Very well , ” said the cardinal ; “ and you , Monsieur Aramis ? ” “ Monseigneur , being of a very mild disposition , and being , likewise , of which Monseigneur perhaps is not aware , about to enter into orders , I endeavored to appease my comrades , when one of these wretches gave me a wound with a sword , treacherously , across my left arm .
“ Pooh !
When are you to be married ? ” “ I will tell you all , ” said Valentine ; “ from you I have nothing to conceal .
I swear to you , I like no better than yourself to meet that viper in my path. ” “ Ah !
But when the saddle and arms for Grimaud were purchased , Athos had not a sou left of his hundred and fifty pistoles .
He smiled ; the infernal invention would serve him for this purpose .
“ That man was he who had pursued me during a whole year , who had vowed my dishonor , and who , by the first words that issued from his mouth , gave me to understand he had accomplished it the preceding night. ” “ Scoundrel ! ” murmured Felton .
This is a detail preserved to us by Brienne .
So D ’ Artagnan began : “ Sir , ” he said , with desperate politeness , “ it seems to me that you change your costume almost as rapidly as I have seen the Italian mummers do , whom the Cardinal Mazarin brought over from Bergamo and whom he doubtless took you to see during your travels in France. ” Mordaunt did not reply .
It was Mordaunt with the order in his hand .
“ She did well to die , poor girl ! ” “ The sitting is adjourned , gentlemen , ” said the president ; “ fresh inquiries will be made , and the case will be tried next session by another magistrate. ” As for Andrea , who was calm and more interesting than ever , he left the hall , escorted by gendarmes , who involuntarily paid him some attention .
The following sentence , with active links to , or other immediate access to , the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work ( any work on which the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” appears , or with which the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” is associated ) is accessed , displayed , performed , viewed , copied or distributed : This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
Well , we will reflect and perhaps we will beg him .
He remained motionless on the spot , pressing with his left hand something he had concealed under his coat .
“ Oh , ” said Madame de Villefort , smiling , “ are you courageous enough to sit down upon the very seat perhaps upon which the crime was committed ? ” Madame Danglars rose suddenly .
“ I am perhaps come too soon , count , ” said he , “ but I frankly acknowledge that I have not closed my eyes all night , nor has anyone in my house .
Nevertheless , while acknowledging the truth of what he said , I thought proper to insist ; but without even giving himself the trouble to enter into any discussion with me , he took one of his pistols , laid it on his table , day and night , and said that at the first word that should be spoken to him about removing , either within the house or out of it , he would blow out the brains of the person who should be so imprudent as to meddle with a matter which only concerned himself .
“ Do you observe , ” said the Countess G—— to Albert , who had returned to her side , “ that man does nothing like other people ; he listens most devoutly to the third act of _Robert le Diable_ , and when the fourth begins , takes his departure. ” Chapter 54 .
At the second turn , a bunch of fresh violets , thrown from a carriage filled with harlequins , indicated to Albert that , like himself and his friend , the peasants had changed their costume also ; and whether it was the result of chance , or whether a similar feeling had possessed them both , while he had donned their costume , they had assumed his .
“ I beg your excellency ’ s pardon for keeping you waiting , ” said the man , in the Roman dialect , “ but I don ’ t think I ’ m many minutes after my time , ten o ’ clock has just struck by the clock of Saint John Lateran. ” “ Say not a word about being late , ” replied the stranger in purest Tuscan ; “ ’ tis I who am too soon .
He took up the deadly weapon again , his lips parted and his eyes fixed on the clock , and then shuddered at the click of the trigger as he cocked the pistol .
“ Do you wish to assassinate a man who , in the eyes of Heaven , is a brother ?
But the third time , which is the present , you may succumb .
“ Yes , sir , ” he said , in a softened tone .
His valet looked at the visitors through a sort of wicket ; and if their faces were unknown to him or displeased him , he replied that the abbé was not in Paris , an answer which satisfied most persons , because the abbé was known to be a great traveller .
When we parted at the Pont du Var , you told me you were going to travel through Piedmont and Tuscany ; but instead of that , you come to Paris. ” “ How does that annoy you ? ” “ It does not ; on the contrary , I think it will answer my purpose. ” “ So , ” said Andrea , “ you are speculating upon me ? ” “ What fine words he uses ! ” “ I warn you , Master Caderousse , that you are mistaken. ” “ Well , well , don ’ t be angry , my boy ; you know well enough what it is to be unfortunate ; and misfortunes make us jealous .
They took the bridge .
You were rich , noble , held in great esteem—had all that could render a man happy ? ” “ All , ” said the major , hastily swallowing his biscuit , “ positively all. ” “ And yet there was one thing wanting in order to complete your happiness ? ” “ Only one thing , ” said the Italian .
Supposing it had been thrown aside , it would probably be on the path which led to the little gate ; but this examination was as useless as the first , and with a bursting heart I returned to the thicket , which now contained no hope for me. ” “ Oh , ” cried Madame Danglars , “ it was enough to drive you mad ! ” “ I hoped for a moment that it might , ” said Villefort ; “ but that happiness was denied me .
Who can possibly have told you I had had that dream ?
My intention was to enter him as a clerk in some ship , and without letting him know anything of my plan , to convey him some morning on board ; by this means his future treatment would depend upon his own conduct .
“ Oh , ” added a third voice , “ the shrouds of the Château d ’ If are not dear ! ” 0257m “ Perhaps , ” said one of the previous speakers , “ as he was a churchman , they may go to some expense in his behalf. ” “ They may give him the honors of the sack. ” Edmond did not lose a word , but comprehended very little of what was said .
He has been here a week , with the instinct of a hound , hunting by himself .
We bet upon one hour , and we have stayed an hour and a half .
“ I begin , and without any rhetoric. ” “ Allow me , Porthos , ” said Aramis .
On arriving at the king ’ s private antechamber , M. de Tréville found La Chesnaye , who informed him that they had not been able to find M. de la Trémouille on the preceding evening at his hôtel , that he returned too late to present himself at the Louvre , that he had only that moment arrived and that he was at that very hour with the king .
In military dress he was , indeed , as we have stated , a very handsome man .
Why , much the same story. ” “ But how could a poor Catalan fisher-boy , without education or resources , make a fortune ?
My !
Monsieur Porthos ! ” cried the procurator ’ s wife .
Do we breakfast or dine ?
“ Now , ” he said , “ are you in pain ? ” “ Yes ; my head is not only swimming but burning. ” “ What ’ s the matter with this head ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , raising the battered hat .
Haitians are the _écarté_ of French stock-jobbing .
D ’ Artagnan believed him to be dead , or at least insensible , and went toward him for the purpose of taking the order ; but the moment he extended his hand to search for it , the wounded man , who had not dropped his sword , plunged the point into D ’ Artagnan ’ s breast , crying , “ One for you ! ” “ And one for me—the best for last ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , furious , nailing him to the earth with a fourth thrust through his body .
Sometimes , when Monsieur de Chavigny paid him a visit , the duke used to ask him what he should think if he saw an army of Parisians , all fully armed , appear at Vincennes to deliver him from prison .
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ( “ the Foundation ” or PGLAF ) , owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works .
is it you , Aramis ? ” said Porthos .
“ You are the friend of the cardinal , for he sends you hither , and yet— ” “ And yet I speak ill of him , ” replied Milady , finishing the thought of the superior .
“ Who do these three cavaliers appear to you to be ? ” “ What do you think , Aramis ? ” “ Why , they are our men. ” “ You are not mistaken ; I recognize Monsieur de Flamarens. ” “ And I , Monsieur de Chatillon. ” “ As to the cavalier in the brown cloak—— ” “ It is the cardinal. ” “ In person. ” “ How the devil do they venture so near the Hotel de Bouillon ? ” Athos smiled , but did not reply .
Ah , count , he esteems you so highly , tell him that he has spoken amiss. ” And she took two or three steps forward .
“ Luigi pushed the stone behind her , for on the crest of a small adjacent hill which cut off the view toward Palestrina , he saw a traveller on horseback , stopping a moment , as if uncertain of his road , and thus presenting against the blue sky that perfect outline which is peculiar to distant objects in southern climes .
“ Bah ! ” said Porthos , “ why separate , since we are all together ? ” “ Because you can and ought to return to France ; your mission is accomplished , but ours is not. ” “ Your mission is not accomplished ? ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , looking in astonishment at Athos .
Can I be of any use to you ? ” Chatillon made a sign with his hand and Aramis was about to dismount when he received a violent shock ; ’ twas a thrust from a sword , but his cuirass turned aside the blow .
I can scarcely credit it. ” “ Nevertheless , it is quite true ; still , I agree with you in thinking that my present ignorance of the first city in Europe is a reproach to me in every way , and calls for immediate correction ; but , in all probability , I should have performed so important , so necessary a duty , as that of making myself acquainted with the wonders and beauties of your justly celebrated capital , had I known any person who would have introduced me into the fashionable world , but unfortunately I possessed no acquaintance there , and , of necessity , was compelled to abandon the idea. ” “ So distinguished an individual as yourself , ” cried Albert , “ could scarcely have required an introduction. ” “ You are most kind ; but as regards myself , I can find no merit I possess , save that , as a millionaire , I might have become a partner in the speculations of M. Aguado and M. Rothschild ; but as my motive in travelling to your capital would not have been for the pleasure of dabbling in stocks , I stayed away till some favorable chance should present itself of carrying my wish into execution .
He resolved not to reach Noisy in the day , for fear of being recognized ; he had therefore plenty of time before him , for Noisy is only three or four leagues from Paris , on the road to Meaux .
“ Now , gentlemen , ” said Athos , when he had ascertained there were five chambers free in the hôtel , “ let everyone retire to his own apartment .
He pushed open the door and found the first room empty and deserted .
The extreme beauty of the countenance , that shone forth in loveliness that mocked the vain attempts of dress to augment it , was peculiarly and purely Grecian ; there were the large , dark , melting eyes , the finely formed nose , the coral lips , and pearly teeth , that belonged to her race and country .
Here , take this , ’ continued he , after rapidly writing the few lines I brought to your excellency , and upon receipt of which you deigned to receive me into your service , and proudly I ask whether your excellency has ever had cause to repent having done so ? ” “ No , ” replied the count ; “ I take pleasure in saying that you have served me faithfully , Bertuccio ; but you might have shown more confidence in me. ” “ I , your excellency ? ” “ Yes ; you .
We do not think ourselves worthy to stand near such great names. ” “ But you , I presume , have decided to assert your pretensions viva voce ? ” “ I believe you , madame , to be a great and powerful queen , and that it will be unworthy of your power and greatness if you do not recompense the arms which will bring back his eminence to Saint Germain. ” “ It is my intention so to do ; come , let us hear you .
“ Well , sir ? ” he said .
M. Coquenard knit his eyebrows because there were too many good things .
The Baron d ’ Épinay was my friend , as you know , and an alliance with his son is the most suitable thing that could possibly be arranged. ” “ Do you think , ” said Madame de Villefort , “ that Valentine is in league with him ?
“ Sire , ” continued M. de Blacas , “ if it only be to reassure a faithful servant , will your majesty send into Languedoc , Provence , and Dauphiné , trusty men , who will bring you back a faithful report as to the feeling in these three provinces ? ” “ _Canimus surdis_ , ” replied the king , continuing the annotations in his Horace .
Oh , by the way , you ’ d better take lodging in the Rue Montorgueil at the Chat Qui Pelote .
I shall serve under the eye of your Eminence , and if I have the good fortune to conduct myself at the siege in such a manner as merits your attention , then I shall at least leave behind me some brilliant action to justify the protection with which you honor me .
Don ’ t be afraid , ” said he , smiling .
One would say you were carrying me off. ” “ And they would be right , _pardieu ! _ ” “ Oh , I think you swore , Eugénie. ” And the two young girls , whom everyone might have thought plunged in grief , the one on her own account , the other from interest in her friend , burst out laughing , as they cleared away every visible trace of the disorder which had naturally accompanied the preparations for their escape .
For pity ’ s sake ! ” cried the young man , whose agony-drawn breath at times , when his head went under water , under the wave , exhaled and made the icy waters bubble .
“ Why , this evening , ” said the abbess ; “ today even .
Nevertheless , after several attempts at conversation with Olivain he foresaw that many days passed thus would prove exceedingly dull ; and the count ’ s agreeable voice , his gentle and persuasive eloquence , recurred to his mind at the various towns through which they journeyed and about which he had no longer any one to give him those interesting details which he would have drawn from Athos , the most amusing and the best informed of guides .
As similar intrigues are not uncommon in Italy , if we may credit travellers , the comtess did not manifest the least incredulity , but congratulated Albert on his success .
“ So it is agreed , and if Porthos makes no objection—— ” “ I , ” said Porthos , “ I will do whatever you please ; and besides , I think what the Comte de la Fere said just now is very good. ” “ But your future career , D ’ Artagnan—your ambition , Porthos ? ” “ Our future , our ambition ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , with feverish volubility .
Now , that an explanation may bear fruit , it is necessary that it should be quietly conducted , far from noise and interruption .
Voices , unheard except on days of revolution , were distinguished ; faces were seen that only appeared on days of bloodshed .
But to return to the charming musicians—you should give us a treat , Danglars , without telling them there is a stranger .
“ I listen to your Eminence with greatest attention , ” replied a female voice which made the Musketeer start .
“ In fact , ” said Mordaunt , with a calm voice and immovable countenance , “ a single blow sufficed. ” “ Perhaps it was some one in that occupation , ” said Cromwell .
There ! ” “ Let us dine , then , ” said Porthos ; “ it is getting cold. ” The friends , at ease with regard to the future , did honor to the repast , the remains of which were abandoned to Mousqueton , Bazin , Planchet , and Grimaud .
Ah , my dear Athos , I am greatly afraid I have drawn a terrible vengeance on both of us ! ” D ’ Artagnan then related all—the mad passion of Milady and her menaces of death .
1.F.3 .
“ Immediately , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ we have not a minute to lose. ” “ Hello , Grimaud !
Suddenly the boat leaned on one side beneath a new and unexpected weight and Grimaud uttered a shout of joy ; every one turned around and beheld Athos , livid , his eyes dim and his hands trembling , supporting himself on the edge of the boat .
“ A Greek ? ” murmured the Count of Morcerf .
He rubbed his eyes , doubting if he really saw before him Athos and Aramis ; and forced at last to yield to evidence , he was on the point of breaking forth in exclamations when he encountered a glance from the eyes of Porthos , the repressive force of which he was not inclined to dispute .
Teresa had become alarmed at the wild and deserted look of the plain around her , and pressed closely against her guide , not uttering a syllable ; but as she saw him advance with even step and composed countenance , she endeavored to repress her emotion .
I do not understand you ? ” “ I mean , Mercédès , that you are thus harsh and cruel with me , because you are expecting someone who is thus attired ; but perhaps he whom you await is inconstant , or if he is not , the sea is so to him. ” “ Fernand , ” cried Mercédès , “ I believed you were good-hearted , and I was mistaken !
He questioned Jacopo .
He was confessing to himself that he belonged to the latter unhappy class , when Planchet approached and said : “ I will lay a wager , your honor , that you and I are thinking of the same thing. ” “ I doubt it , Planchet , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ but what are you thinking of ? ” “ I am thinking , sir , of those desperate looking men who were drinking in the inn where we rested. ” “ Always cautious , Planchet. ” “ ’ Tis instinct , your honor. ” “ Well , what does your instinct tell you now ? ” “ Sir , my instinct told me that those people were assembled there for some bad purpose ; and I was reflecting on what my instinct had told me , in the darkest corner of the stable , when a man wrapped in a cloak and followed by two other men , came in. ” “ Ah ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , Planchet ’ s recital agreeing with his own observations .
If we were to make ourselves known we should be sent to rejoin our friends in some deep ditch , from which the devil himself could not take us out .
In all , three clerks and a half , which , for the time , argued a very extensive clientage .
The officer alone went on board , where he was received with all the deference inspired by the uniform .
My brother-in-law and myself expected you yesterday and the day before , but in vain .
Porthos fired ; the flash threw a gleam of light over the field of battle .
I have , happily , only myself in the world to care for. ” “ But what makes you sigh ? ” “ My dear fellow , ” replied Porthos , “ to be candid with you , I am not happy. ” “ You are not happy , Porthos ?
I can not hope to be very fluent , but I certainly should have no difficulty in explaining my wants and wishes ; and that would be quite as much as I should ever require. ” Stronger grew the wonder of Dantès , who almost fancied he had to do with one gifted with supernatural powers ; still hoping to find some imperfection which might bring him down to a level with human beings , he added , “ Then if you were not furnished with pens , how did you manage to write the work you speak of ? ” “ I made myself some excellent ones , which would be universally preferred to all others if once known .
Dantès in his cell heard the noise of preparation , —sounds that at the depth where he lay would have been inaudible to any but the ear of a prisoner , who could hear the splash of the drop of water that every hour fell from the roof of his dungeon .
The blood had mounted to the head of D ’ Artagnan , and at that moment he would have drawn his sword against all the Musketeers in the kingdom as willingly as he now did against Athos , Porthos , and Aramis .
Cavalcanti , being left alone , turned to Monte Cristo .
This scene completely changed the opinion of the assembly respecting the accused count .
“ Why , it is a veritable pilgrimage , my dear friend , that you are making to the Temple of Friendship , as the poets would say. ” “ Why , yes , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , with embarrassment .
I also was married at the death-bed of my mother , and certainly I have not been less happy on that account. ” “ Still that idea of death , madame , ” said Villefort .
But I swear to you , sir , I swear to you , by everything a man holds dear , I have , since then , deeply and sincerely lamented his unhappy fate. ” There was a brief silence , during which the fixed , searching eye of the abbé was employed in scrutinizing the agitated features of the innkeeper .
And with her left hand seizing the thick mass , which her long fingers could scarcely grasp , she took in her right hand a pair of long scissors , and soon the steel met through the rich and splendid hair , which fell in a cluster at her feet as she leaned back to keep it from her coat .
When he had heard and comprehended all to the fullest extent , he replied that he was a royalist .
“ Oh , not the least in the world , madame !
I willingly submit to any punishment your Eminence may please to inflict upon me .
He has already dug up all the garden two or three times to find the famous spring , and , being unsuccessful , he will soon purchase all the contiguous houses .
These were the only living creatures that seemed to inhabit the village .
“ I !
Bonacieux recurred to the mind of the young man .
“ Attend to monsieur le cardinal , gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for myself , I will reconnoitre. ” The Gascon then drew his sword and marched as avant guard .
“ My lord asks of what country you are , ” said the young man , in the purest Castilian .
See how deadly pale he is !
He produced documents proving that the Vizier of Yanina had up to the last moment honored him with his entire confidence , since he had interested him with a negotiation of life and death with the emperor .
One night more and he would be on his way .
“ You were recommended to Monsieur de Tréville , were you not ? ” “ Yes , monseigneur ; but in that unfortunate affair at Meung— ” “ The letter was lost , ” replied his Eminence ; “ yes , I know that .
On your return you can not make a mistake .
I was like you , and had a king in keeping. ” “ Aha ! ” said Groslow ; “ what king ? ” “ Our own , to be sure , the little one—Louis XIV. ” “ And how long had you to take care of him ? ” “ Three nights ; and , by my troth , I shall always remember those three nights with a certain pleasure. ” “ How do you mean ? ” “ I mean that my friends , officers in the guards and mousquetaires , came to keep me company and we passed the night in feasting , drinking , dicing. ” “ Ah true , ” said the Englishman , with a sigh ; “ you Frenchmen are born boon companions. ” “ And don ’ t you play , too , when you are on guard ? ” “ Never , ” said the Englishman .
What is the use of boring one ’ s self with so many things ?
He sat all night on his stool , starting at the least noise ; and when the first rays of the sun penetrated into his chamber , the dawn itself appeared to him to have taken funereal tints .
‘ Ah , yes , ’ he said , ‘ I know them .
“ Count , ” he said , “ you are not the same here as in Paris. ” “ How so ? ” “ Here you laugh. ” The count ’ s brow became clouded .
They had gone rather more than a league and had begun to descry the first houses of the village , the red-tiled roofs of which stood out from the green trees which surrounded them , when , coming toward them mounted on a mule , they perceived a poor monk , whose large hat and gray worsted dress made them take him for an Augustine brother .
“ In the first place , do you accept ? ” asked the cardinal .
“ Vicomte , ” said Athos to Raoul , “ follow the duchess ; beg her to do you the favor to take your arm in going downstairs , and thank her as you descend. ” The fair Indian approached Scarron .
Hearing the name of Morrel , who had left him only two hours before , the count raised his head , arose , and sprang to meet him .
The man remained in the village ; the woman had had a relay of horses , and continued her journey .
“ Who went out this morning ? ” Athos asked , uneasily .
I pardon you , and I weep for you .
Monte Cristo , on the contrary , took the right hand ; arrived near a clump of trees , he stopped .
I shall be on the king ’ s left and as I am the chief person threatened , remain at the coach door to the left. ” “ Your eminence may be perfectly easy , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ they will not touch a hair of your head. ” “ Deuce take it ! ” he thought to himself , “ how can I take care of both ?
In his most simple actions , as well as in his most secret thoughts , I find a relation to my own .
I , who was looking on , an eager and curious spectator , —I , who was watching the working of this mournful tragedy , —I , who like a wicked angel was laughing at the evil men committed protected by secrecy ( a secret is easily kept by the rich and powerful ) , I am in my turn bitten by the serpent whose tortuous course I was watching , and bitten to the heart ! ” Morrel groaned .
“ Enchanted , monsieur , ” said Mazarin , venturing his head out of one of the windows ; “ and now do as much for the queen. ” “ It will not be so difficult , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , springing to the ground .
The king was lying on his bed , resting on his elbow .
“ One moment , yes , ” answered the queen .
“ Yes , madame. ” “ Are you ready ? ” “ I am. ” “ And his eminence , the cardinal ? ” “ Has got off without any accident .
“ To return instantly to England , and to inform him as soon as the duke leaves London. ” “ And as to my other instructions ? ” asked the fair traveler .
Enervated , prostrate , and breathless , he became unconscious of outward objects ; he seemed to be entering that vague delirium preceding death .
is there a secret spring ? ” said Valentine .
You do not like Dantès ? ” “ I never like upstarts. ” “ Then tell me all you know about the Catalane. ” “ I know nothing for certain ; only I have seen things which induce me to believe , as I told you , that the future captain will find some annoyance in the vicinity of the Vieilles Infirmeries. ” “ What have you seen ? —come , tell me ! ” “ Well , every time I have seen Mercédès come into the city she has been accompanied by a tall , strapping , black-eyed Catalan , with a red complexion , brown skin , and fierce air , whom she calls cousin. ” “ Really ; and you think this cousin pays her attentions ? ” “ I only suppose so .
“ Something whispers me so , ” continued Porthos , becoming more and more melancholy .
“ For Heaven ’ s sake , madame , ” said Villefort , with a firmness of expression not altogether free from harshness— “ for Heaven ’ s sake , do not ask pardon of me for a guilty wretch !
And why were you alone ? ” 40231m “ Because you had been arrested , Edmond , and were a prisoner. ” “ And why was I arrested ?
“ What are my commands ? ” said the queen .
And moreover , my dear child , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ I am making use of the privilege conceded to me by your guardian. ” “ I do not understand you , sir , ” said Raoul .
“ Well ? ” said the queen , blinded by her obstinacy .
“ A man wishes to see Monsieur at home , ” replied Bazin .
Stop a moment ; does not that sunbeam yonder , just by the side of the town , glitter on the Ironsides ? ” This was the name given the cuirassiers , whom Cromwell had made his body-guard .
You have seen the count , you say ? ” “ I have only just left him. ” “ And has he conformed to all that the letter specified ? ” “ He has. ” “ Do you understand it ? ” “ Not in the least. ” “ There is a dupe somewhere. ” “ At all events , it is neither you nor I. ” “ Certainly not. ” “ Well , then—— ” “ Why , it does not much concern us , do you think it does ? ” “ No ; I agree with you there .
The two men , approaching the ends of the bed , took the sack by its extremities .
“ You may make your mind easy , ” said the doctor ; “ he is dead .
My dear sir , will you allow me to ask you a question ? ” “ What is it , sir ? ” “ You are fond of gardening ? ” “ Passionately. ” “ And you would be pleased to have , instead of this terrace of twenty feet , an enclosure of two acres ? ” “ Sir , I should make a terrestrial paradise of it. ” “ You live badly on your thousand francs ? ” “ Badly enough ; but yet I do live. ” “ Yes ; but you have a wretchedly small garden. ” “ True , the garden is not large. ” “ And , then , such as it is , it is filled with dormice , who eat everything. ” “ Ah , they are my scourges. ” “ Tell me , should you have the misfortune to turn your head while your right-hand correspondent was telegraphing—— ” “ I should not see him. ” “ Then what would happen ? ” “ I could not repeat the signals. ” “ And then ? ” “ Not having repeated them , through negligence , I should be fined. ” “ How much ? ” “ A hundred francs. ” “ The tenth of your income—that would be fine work. ” “ Ah ! ” said the man .
And the name of Athos as well concealed the Comte de la Fère , as the name Milady Clarik concealed Anne de Breuil .
YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION , THE TRADEMARK OWNER , AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL , DIRECT , INDIRECT , CONSEQUENTIAL , PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE .
One thought in particular tormented him : namely , that during his journey hither he had sat so still , whereas he might , a dozen times , have plunged into the sea , and , thanks to his powers of swimming , for which he was famous , have gained the shore , concealed himself until the arrival of a Genoese or Spanish vessel , escaped to Spain or Italy , where Mercédès and his father could have joined him .
The king returned amidst the silence of a vast multitude to the Palais Royal .
“ Yes , my captain. ” As they went , the citizens , awakened , left their doors and the street dogs followed the cavaliers , barking .
It is a brawl ; and the proof is that there were five of the cardinal ’ s Guardsmen against my three Musketeers and Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” “ That is true , ” said the king ; “ but never mind , Tréville , come still by the back staircase. ” Tréville smiled ; but as it was indeed something to have prevailed upon this child to rebel against his master , he saluted the king respectfully , and with this agreement , took leave of him .
Scarcely , however , had he touched Edmond ’ s hand when he felt he had done all he could do , and rushed hastily out of the house .
I have warned M. Danglars of it till I am tired , but he is fascinated with his Luccanese .
“ Gaspard Caderousse ; he had married a woman from the village of Carconte , and whom we did not know by any other name than that of her village .
Meanwhile M. de Villefort arrived in a hired cabriolet at M. d ’ Avrigny ’ s door .
Milady , being well prepared for the reception of Felton , was able to erect her batteries for the next day .
Suddenly the tumult ceased , as if by magic , and the doors of the church opened .
If the letter must be written under your censure , my faith , I renounce the task. ” “ And you will do right .
Grimaud begins his Functions .
He was restrained by the threats of the two gentlemen and by the presence of their attendants , who doubtless had received their instructions .
I adore Rome , and I have always had a great taste for archæology. ” 20189m “ Come , two or three more such adventures , and I do not despair of seeing you a member of the Academy. ” Doubtless Albert was about to discuss seriously his right to the academic chair when they were informed that dinner was ready .
The soldier on guard at her door stopped , as if he had been changed into stone .
I have some smuggled coffee and most capital tobacco , in a small chest in the hold , which you shall have tomorrow .
Indeed , the name of Bernajoux was known to all the world , D ’ Artagnan alone excepted , perhaps ; for it was one of those which figured most frequently in the daily brawls which all the edicts of the cardinal could not repress .
The first glance which Maximilian directed towards her entirely reassured him , and the first words she spoke made his heart bound with delight .
“ He is writing , ” she said .
I possess a share of wit , and a certain relative sensibility , which enables me to draw from life in general , for the support of mine , all I meet with that is good , like the monkey who cracks the nut to get at its contents .
However , I ’ m glad not to fight them until to-morrow .
“ Grimaud , ” said Athos , pointing to the bodies which lay under the wall of the bastion , “ take those gentlemen , set them up against the wall , put their hats upon their heads , and their guns in their hands. ” “ Oh , the great man ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
“ Let us not misunderstand each other , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ I introduce no one , and certainly not M. Cavalcanti. ” “ And who , ” said Albert with a forced smile , “ is to marry Mademoiselle Danglars instead of me , which grieves me cruelly. ” “ What ?
This gentleman was a young man , scarcely sixteen years of age , now white with anger .
You may understand that the moment has come for me to re-enter the bosom of the Church. ” “ And why today , rather than yesterday or tomorrow ?
You are now almost a man , since you have made your first passage of arms , and have acquired the right to go where you will without consulting me. ” “ Never , sir , ” said Raoul , “ as long as I possess the happiness of having you for a protector , shall I deem I have the right of freeing myself from a guardianship so valuable to me .
“ Above all , she is very rich , —at least , I believe so , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ Who said Valentine was dead ? ” The two men turned round , and saw Morrel standing at the door , pale and terror-stricken .
She remained nearly always in her second-floor chamber , shivering in her chair , or stretched languid and feeble on her bed , while her husband kept his daily watch at the door—a duty he performed with so much the greater willingness , as it saved him the necessity of listening to the endless plaints and murmurs of his helpmate , who never saw him without breaking out into bitter invectives against fate ; to all of which her husband would calmly return an unvarying reply , in these philosophic words : “ Hush , La Carconte .
It is important that he should receive it before eleven o ’ clock .
In the meantime , dispose of my coachman , my carriage , and my servants. ” We have forgotten to mention , that the count ’ s coachman was attired in a bear-skin , exactly resembling Odry ’ s in _The Bear and the Pasha_ ; and the two footmen behind were dressed up as green monkeys , with spring masks , with which they made grimaces at everyone who passed .
pray be assured of that. ” Franz took his hat and went away in haste .
“ Then he has not returned ? ” said the duke .
“ I never meddle save with what concerns me , and I know how to make believe that I haven ’ t seen what does not concern me ; but I hate hypocrites , and among that number I place musketeers who are abbés and abbés who are musketeers ; and , ” he added , turning to Porthos “ here ’ s a gentleman who ’ s of the same opinion as myself. ” Porthos , who had not spoken one word , answered merely by a word and a gesture .
Madame de Villefort , unconscious of the passions that exhausted their fire over her head , at that moment held her son ’ s ball , and was making signs to him to reclaim it with a kiss .
I did not even wish to know her name , nor do I know it. ” Just then a piercing cry , ending in a sob , burst from the centre of the crowd , who encircled the lady who had before fainted , and who now fell into a violent fit of hysterics .
If a question in heraldry were started , Athos knew all the noble families of the kingdom , their genealogy , their alliances , their coats of arms , and the origin of them .
Dispose of me , then , as a friend. ” “ But I—where shall I go meanwhile ? ” “ Is there nobody from whose house Monsieur Laporte can come and fetch you ? ” “ No , I can trust nobody. ” “ Stop , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ we are near Athos ’ s door .
In an instant , from the door of the cabinet to the street gate , the whole hôtel was boiling .
“ I swallow every morning a spoonful of the mixture prepared for my grandfather .
I leave you alone in your struggle with misfortune—alone with that strong-winged eagle which God sends to bear aloft the elect to his feet .
Juxon was waiting for him impatiently .
If I ever find him again—and I will find him , I swear , were it in hell ! ” “ He was waiting for a woman , ” continued Tréville .
Let us bury this terrible secret in the deepest recesses of our hearts ; I am willing , if anyone should suspect this , that my silence on the subject should be imputed to my ignorance .
“ I perceive that this creature will be my particular aversion , ” he muttered .
“ Finally , ” said Felton , “ finally , what did they do ? ” “ At length , one evening my enemy resolved to paralyze the resistance he could not conquer .
Twenty good pistoles , already , without reckoning the doctor .
Come , my friend , come , let me embrace you .
This night I have had a fearful sleep .
The name he pronounced , in a voice of tenderness , amounting almost to love , was that of Haydée .
Oh , curses , woe , death to you ! ” He tried to follow Monte Cristo ; but as though in a dream he was transfixed to the spot , —his eyes glared as though they were starting through the sockets ; he griped the flesh on his chest until his nails were stained with blood ; the veins of his temples swelled and boiled as though they would burst their narrow boundary , and deluge his brain with living fire .
Madame de Villefort remained immersed in thought .
“ I see they kept their promise. ” “ No , monsieur , ” returned Monte Cristo “ upon the simple condition that they should respect myself and my friends .
I only know for a certainty that he fell ; and it seemed to me that he was borne away with his two companions. ” “ The devil , gentlemen ! ” said the cardinal , “ three men placed _hors de combat_ in a cabaret squabble !
“ What do you mean to do with that purse ? ” whispered he .
There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™ electronic works .
“ Toward the town of Louvres , ” was the reply .
He , who returned to France with millions , had been unable to find the grave of his father , who had perished from hunger .
The keeper relaxed his hold .
Your voice is that of a young man. ” “ I do not know my age , for I have not counted the years I have been here .
“ Infamous ! ” said Mme .
“ Yes .
It was on that occasion that my ancestor , Enguerrand de la Fere , was made a knight of the Order of St. Michael ; besides which , the king , fifteen years afterward , gave him also this ewer and a sword which you may have seen formerly in my house , also a lovely specimen of workmanship .
The worn out steps were old acquaintances of his ; he knew better than anyone else how to open that weather-beaten door with the large headed nail which served to raise the latch within .
Monsieur du Vallon and I are the only two who are armed .
“ ‘ Sdeath ! ” cried he to the coachman .
When they entered D ’ Artagnan ’ s chamber , it was empty ; the landlord , dreading the consequences of the encounter which was doubtless about to take place between the young man and the stranger , had , consistent with the character he had given himself , judged it prudent to decamp .
The young man stood before her , sorrowful and resolute .
on ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ there ’ ll be firing !
“ And what have I to do with your ill-humor ? ” said the baroness , irritated at the impassibility of her husband ; “ do these things concern me ?
There is an excellent tavern at Compiègne , well remembered by those who have ever been there .
The latter wished to detain him by darting certain tender glances ; but Porthos urged the commands of duty , and the procurator ’ s wife was obliged to give place to the king .
But we were not captured by fair means ; and before we had time to draw our swords , two of our party were dead , and Athos , grievously wounded , was very little better .
“ Courage , take courage , my dear mother ! ” said the girl .
He soon heard the clatter of the iron step of the hackney-coach , then the coachman ’ s voice , and then the rolling of the heavy vehicle shook the windows .
The queen breathed more freely .
He came toward Teresa in high spirits , and seemed to have completely forgotten the events of the previous evening .
Make no allusion to the past ; nor upon any occasion be induced to pronounce the names of your illustrious father or ill-fated mother. ” “ I have already told you , my lord , that I shall see no one. ” “ It is possible , Haydée , that so perfect a seclusion , though conformable with the habits and customs of the East , may not be practicable in Paris .
I will teach you how to laugh to-morrow—but in another manner. ” But whilst they were indulging in extravagant joy at the Palais Royal , to increase the hilarity of the queen , Mazarin , a man of sense , and whose fear , moreover , gave him foresight , lost no time in making idle and dangerous jokes ; he went out after the coadjutor , settled his account , locked up his gold , and had confidential workmen to contrive hiding places in his walls .
Observe , this is one of her peculiarities , to get rid thus , after one fashion or another , of all the people who bother her .
Milady will then turn you out of doors , and you know she is not the woman to limit her vengeance. ” “ Alas ! ” said Kitty , “ for whom have I exposed myself to all that ? ” “ For me , I well know , my sweet girl , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Sit down , in mercy ! ” D ’ Artagnan , mute with anger and anxiety , took a seat in the threatening attitude of a judge .
50273m “ Friend , ” he cried , “ I feel that I am dying ; thanks ! ” He made a last effort to extend his hand , but it fell powerless beside him .
Go and tell him the ring is his , D ’ Artagnan , and bring back the two hundred pistoles with you. ” “ Reflect , Athos ! ” “ Ready money is needful for the present time , and we must learn how to make sacrifices .
“ The devil take you , ” said Aramis .
Go and look for the Comte de la Fere ; I wish to speak with him. ” Aramis found Athos and brought him .
D ’ Artagnan took some water in the hollow of his hand and threw it upon his face .
In the midst of the disasters that befell the house , Cocles was the only one unmoved .
Listen , sir .
you are right—a mute from the East !
“ Yes , but they will make you then sign your declaration , and confront you with him you have denounced ; I will supply you with the means of supporting your accusation , for I know the fact well .
He left the room , and returned in five minutes with a phial .
“ To give them the order to charge , and run down these miserable rebels. ” And the king , putting spurs to his horse , set off to the tent of Lord Leven .
It is an every-day occurrence for a gambler to lose not only what he possesses but also what he has not. ” Morrel pronounced these words with perfect calmness ; Valentine looked at him a moment with her large , scrutinizing eyes , endeavoring not to let Morrel discover the grief which struggled in her heart .
She will , however , be in the salon in ten minutes. ” “ It is a great honor to me , ” returned Monte Cristo , “ to be thus , on the first day of my arrival in Paris , brought in contact with a man whose merit equals his reputation , and to whom fortune has for once been equitable , but has she not still on the plains of Mitidja , or in the mountains of Atlas , a marshal ’ s staff to offer you ? ” “ Oh , ” replied Morcerf , reddening slightly , “ I have left the service , monsieur .
“ Only , ” continued M. d ’ Avrigny , with a slow and solemn tone , “ if anyone falls ill in your house , if you feel yourself attacked , do not send for me , for I will come no more .
“ Then he will tell it me himself. ” “ I doubt it , my lord. ” “ Why do you doubt it ? ” “ Because the secret does not belong to him ; because , as I have told you , it has to do with a great queen. ” “ And he was alone in achieving an enterprise like that ? ” “ No , my lord , he had three colleagues , three brave men , men such as you were wishing for just now. ” “ And were these four men attached to each other , true in heart , really united ? ” “ As if they had been one man—as if their four hearts had pulsated in one breast. ” “ You pique my curiosity , dear Rochefort ; pray tell me the whole story. ” “ That is impossible ; but I will tell you a true story , my lord. ” “ Pray do so , I delight in stories , ” cried the cardinal .
As for Porthos , he dreamed that the panels of his carriage were not capacious enough to contain the armorial bearings he had ordered to be painted on them .
He again ran back to the château .
he was an honest man , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
It was one of those rare and beautiful days in winter when England remembers that there is a sun .
Besides , you must have seen that the person to whom I spoke was a woman. ” “ That is true ; but this woman is a friend of Aramis— ” “ I know nothing of that. ” “ —since she lodges with him. ” “ That does not concern me. ” “ But who is she ? ” “ Oh , that is not my secret. ” “ My dear Madame Bonacieux , you are charming ; but at the same time you are one of the most mysterious women. ” “ Do I lose by that ? ” “ No ; you are , on the contrary , adorable. ” “ Give me your arm , then. ” “ Most willingly .
I should have thought the continual failures you have met with in all your own love affairs might have taught you better by this time. ” “ Upon my soul , these women would puzzle the very Devil to read them aright .
or Richelieu—for two of these armchairs , adorned with a carved shield , on which were engraved the fleur-de-lis of France on an azure field , evidently came from the Louvre , or , at least , some royal residence .
Athos , do you know any inn in the whole town where one can find white sheets , roast beef reasonably cooked , and wine which is not made of hops and gin ? ” “ I think I know what you want , ” replied Athos .
Mazarin turned pale and shrank back in the coach .
“ ‘ Thank you , ’ said Luigi , drawing back his hand ; ‘ I render a service , I do not sell it. ’ “ ‘ Well , ’ replied the traveller , who seemed used to this difference between the servility of a man of the cities and the pride of the mountaineer , ‘ if you refuse wages , you will , perhaps , accept a gift. ’ “ ‘ Ah , yes , that is another thing. ’ “ ‘ Then , ’ said the traveller , ‘ take these two Venetian sequins and give them to your bride , to make herself a pair of earrings. ’ “ ‘ And then do you take this poniard , ’ said the young herdsman ; ‘ you will not find one better carved between Albano and Civita-Castellana. ’ “ ‘ I accept it , ’ answered the traveller , ‘ but then the obligation will be on my side , for this poniard is worth more than two sequins. ’ “ ‘ For a dealer perhaps ; but for me , who engraved it myself , it is hardly worth a piastre. ’ “ ‘ What is your name ? ’ inquired the traveller .
“ Do you mean at Rome ? ” “ I do. ” “ Ah , then , I suppose you heard Haydée ’ s guzla ; the poor exile frequently beguiles a weary hour in playing over to me the airs of her native land. ” Morcerf did not pursue the subject , and Monte Cristo himself fell into a silent reverie .
“ Good ! ” said the gendarme , placing his knee on his chest ; “ this is the way you keep your word as a sailor !
As the doctors entered the street , they saw a man in a cassock standing on the threshold of the next door .
“ Yes , ” was the reply , in a low voice .
Mousqueton , groaning , slipped from his horse , his wound not allowing him to keep the saddle .
A door that communicated with the Palais de Justice was opened , and they went through a long range of gloomy corridors , whose appearance might have made even the boldest shudder .
“ Go away , ” he said ; “ your repentance is too recent to inspire confidence .
my friend , ” said he , “ one never has too much money .
“ But , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I trust that you honorably sent them back to monsieur le cardinal ! ” “ Ah , yes ! ” said Aramis , “ toward him I should be very likely to practice such delicacy of sentiment !
What matters really , not only to me , but to officers of justice and the king , is that an innocent man should languish in prison , the victim of an infamous denunciation , to die here cursing his executioners. ” “ You are very humble today , ” remarked the governor ; “ you are not so always ; the other day , for instance , when you tried to kill the turnkey. ” “ It is true , sir , and I beg his pardon , for he has always been very good to me , but I was mad. ” “ And you are not so any longer ? ” “ No ; captivity has subdued me—I have been here so long. ” “ So long ? —when were you arrested , then ? ” asked the inspector .
At this moment Athos perceived a man walking on the seashore parallel to the jetty , and hastening his steps , as if to reach the other side of the port , scarcely twenty steps from the place of embarking .
“ I have measures to take. ” “ She will escape us , ” replied the young man ; “ she will escape us , and it will be your fault , Athos. ” “ I will be accountable for her , ” said Athos .
And moreover , I should not be surprised had we been forestalled by Cromwell .
1.F.3 .
“ And yet , ” he said , “ I must admit that I sent for you to appoint you to quiet service ; I have certain apprehensions—well , what is the meaning of that ? ” In fact , a great noise was heard in the ante-chamber ; at the same time the door of the study was burst open and a man , covered with dust , rushed into it , exclaiming : “ My lord the cardinal !
“ ‘ “ Because , sir , ” said the president , “ you have insulted a man , and that man will not go one step farther without demanding honorable reparation. ” “ ‘ “ Another method of assassination ? ” said the general , shrugging his shoulders .
Etiquette had no minutiæ unknown to him .
It would be wrong to judge the actions of one period from the point of view of another .
Unlimited Credit Chapter 47 .
I heard the door open and shut , and I remained overwhelmed , less , I confess it , by my grief than by the mortification of not having avenged myself .
But we know very well what had become of Edmond .
He would be condemned to die , but he was about to die of grief and despair when this miraculous noise recalled him to life .
“ No , ” replied he with an air of triumph which would have puzzled the most clever diviner .
I depend on you to accompany me to the Opera ; and if you can , bring Château-Renaud with you. ” Beauchamp availed himself of Albert ’ s permission , and left him , promising to call for him at a quarter before eight .
“ ‘ Sinbad the Sailor. ’ ” “ Humph , ” said the major ; “ very good .
Now , let me tell you some news ; Eugénie is to be married in a week , and in three days there is to be a grand feast , a betrothal festival .
She is to dwell in this place without ever going more than three leagues from it .
She found M. Bonacieux alone ; the poor man was recovering with difficulty the order in his house , in which he had found most of the furniture broken and the closets nearly emptied—justice not being one of the three things which King Solomon names as leaving no traces of their passage .
On hearing the password , Germain bowed .
They were willing and ready to retrace their steps , when , in crossing the suburb which leads to the gates of the town , upon a white wall which was at the corner of a street turning around the rampart , Athos cast his eyes upon a drawing in black chalk , which represented , with the awkwardness of a first attempt , two cavaliers riding furiously ; one of them carried a roll of paper on which were written these words : “ They are following us. ” “ Oh ! ” exclaimed Athos , “ here it is , as clear as day ; pursued as he was , D ’ Artagnan would not have tarried here five minutes had he been pressed very closely , which gives us hopes that he may have succeeded in escaping. ” Aramis shook his head .
“ Oh , it concerns you very closely , my uncle , I am sure , and you will soon be of my opinion , ” added he , with a smile which sent a shudder through the veins of him he thus addressed .
Be not alarmed at what I say ; I want to be convinced .
After a moment I fancied that I felt a slight pulsation of the heart , and as I had been assistant at the hospital at Bastia , I did what a doctor would have done—I inflated the lungs by blowing air into them , and at the expiration of a quarter of an hour , it began to breathe , and cried feebly .
No , my friend , I was wrong to caution you ; do not fear , I will bury my grief so deep in my heart , I will disguise it so , that you shall not even care to sympathize with me .
“ I mean that behind the misfortune which has just happened to you , there is another , perhaps , still greater. ” “ Can it be possible ? ” murmured Villefort , clasping his hands .
or solitary confinement .
Signor Pastrini remained silent a short time ; it was evident that he was musing over this answer , which did not seem very clear .
“ He escapes us , ” growled Porthos , pushing his huge shoulder against the hinges , but in vain .
“ Count de Guiche , ” said the prince , “ it is a long time since you saw your father , remain here with him .
“ Ah , traitor ! ” muttered D ’ Artagnan , leaning toward Aramis and whispering in his ear , “ you have made us swear on the crucifix of a Frondeuse. ” Chapter XXIX .
“ Oh , why is not the world a wilderness ? ” she exclaimed , throwing herself into the arms of Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , her eyes sparkling with the same kind of rage which made Nero wish that the Roman world had but one neck , that he might sever it at a single blow .
This circumstance had , moreover , the effect of changing the conversation ; an hour afterwards the two friends returned to their hotel .
the cardinal ’ s enemy ? ” “ No ; the king ’ s friend , ” said Aramis ; “ the king ’ s friend , you understand .
“ God grant you as much !
“ Where are you going ? ” “ Oh , fear not , ” said Maximilian , stopping at a short distance , “ I do not intend to render another man responsible for the rigorous fate reserved for me .
“ Haydée , ” said he , “ did you read it ? ” “ Oh , my lord , ” said she , “ why are you writing thus at such an hour ?
“ ‘ Luigi Vampa , ’ replied the shepherd , with the same air as he would have replied , Alexander , King of Macedon .
Now , as at the moment in which D ’ Artagnan fixed his eyes upon the gentleman in the violet doublet , the gentleman made one of his most knowing and profound remarks respecting the Béarnese pony , his two auditors laughed even louder than before , and he himself , though contrary to his custom , allowed a pale smile ( if I may be allowed to use such an expression ) to stray over his countenance .
“ Perhaps. ” “ And how is your wrist ? ” “ Better ; but do you think that we ’ ve got them this time ? ” “ Got what ? ” “ You your command , and I my title ? ” “ I ’ faith !
“ Just now , ” D ’ Artagnan continued , “ you were disguised—I mean to say , attired—as a murderer , and now—— ” “ And now I look very much like a man who is going to be murdered. ” “ Oh !
Morrel now tried to negotiate bills at ninety days only , and none of the banks would give him credit .
The coadjutor , dragged along with his fugitive forces , passed near the group formed by Athos , Raoul and Aramis .
“ Then on his return give him that card and this sealed paper .
“ What is it ? ” “ I hear a horse. ” “ It belongs to one of our companions , who is overtaking us. ” “ No , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ it is in advance. ” “ That is another thing , ” said Porthos ; and he listened toward the quarter indicated by D ’ Artagnan .
Let us drink , my dear D ’ Artagnan , _morbleu ! _ Let us drink while the wine is fresh !
20181m This precaution taken , they went to the theatre , and installed themselves in the count ’ s box .
“ Those idiots ! ” cried Porthos , “ they have not even pursued us .
I should bombard the troops till not one grain of gunpowder was unexploded. ” “ Yes , but after you had fired off your thirty thousand guns they would take the donjon ; the donjon being taken , I should be obliged to let them hang you—at which I should be most unhappy , certainly. ” And in his turn the duke bowed low to Monsieur de Chavigny .
Anne of Austria opened the door to him herself .
From this moment Vampa devoted all his leisure time to perfecting himself in the use of his precious weapon ; he purchased powder and ball , and everything served him for a mark—the trunk of some old and moss-grown olive-tree , that grew on the Sabine mountains ; the fox , as he quitted his earth on some marauding excursion ; the eagle that soared above their heads : and thus he soon became so expert , that Teresa overcame the terror she at first felt at the report , and amused herself by watching him direct the ball wherever he pleased , with as much accuracy as if he placed it by hand .
As for me I will give my last sou for it .
good news ! ” shouted forth one of the party stationed in the balcony on the lookout .
He pointed his finger to the lighted window .
Porthos took advantage of this circumstance to ogle the women .
Terror was so strongly painted on his face , covered with a cold sweat , that D ’ Artagnan took pity on him , and casting upon him a look of contempt , “ Stop , ” said he , “ I will show you the difference between a man of courage and such a coward as you .
20033m Such was the state of affairs when , the day after his interview with M. de Boville , the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French of Rome , presented himself at M. Morrel ’ s .
Some few words passed between them in that sonorous language in which Homer makes his gods converse .
We render service to God , madame , in serving a prince so unfortunate , a queen so virtuous .
my dear friend , you are going to spoil everything—everything is going on famously .
The latter seemed to be maturing in her mind some great stroke , a fact which increased the uneasiness of the cardinal , who knew the proud princess and dreaded much the determination of Anne of Austria .
Vainglorious as he was , Porthos could not afford to have a baldric wholly of gold , but had at least half .
To SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate .
At length , with a violent effort at self-control : “ The name of that woman ? ” he said .
All we can now do is to wait .
Mazarin , after this half humble , half gallant attention , went away .
My father , the Comte de Morcerf , although of Spanish origin , possesses considerable influence , both at the court of France and Madrid , and I unhesitatingly place the best services of myself , and all to whom my life is dear , at your disposal. ” “ Monsieur de Morcerf , ” replied the count , “ your offer , far from surprising me , is precisely what I expected from you , and I accept it in the same spirit of hearty sincerity with which it is made ; —nay , I will go still further , and say that I had previously made up my mind to ask a great favor at your hands. ” “ Oh , pray name it. ” “ I am wholly a stranger to Paris—it is a city I have never yet seen. ” “ Is it possible , ” exclaimed Albert , “ that you have reached your present age without visiting the finest capital in the world ?
Ministers , princes , kings , will pass away like mountain torrents ; civil war , like a forest flame ; but we—we shall remain ; I have a presentiment that we shall. ” “ Yes , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ let us still be musketeers , and let us retain as our battle-standard that famous napkin of the bastion St. Gervais , on which the great cardinal had three fleurs-de-lis embroidered. ” “ Be it so , ” cried Aramis .
Bonacieux , for such protestations may be made with the worst intentions in the world ; but the voice was all .
40164m “ Then I shall believe God has forgiven you , and I will forgive you too. ” “ As true as I am a Christian , ” stammered Caderousse , “ you will make me die of fright ! ” “ Now begone , ” said the count , pointing to the window .
He clung to one idea—that of his happiness , destroyed , without apparent cause , by an unheard-of fatality ; he considered and reconsidered this idea , devoured it ( so to speak ) , as the implacable Ugolino devours the skull of Archbishop Roger in the Inferno of Dante .
This letter had been conveyed by D ’ Artagnan and had arrived in time .
“ Ah , Monsieur Porthos , ” cried the procurator ’ s wife , when she was assured that no one who was a stranger to the population of the locality could either see or hear her , “ ah , Monsieur Porthos , you are a great conqueror , as it appears ! ” “ I , madame ? ” said Porthos , drawing himself up proudly ; “ how so ? ” “ The signs just now , and the holy water !
To this Monsieur de Beaufort replied that since every opportunity of distinguishing himself in arms was taken from him , he wished to make himself celebrated in the arts ; since he could not be a Bayard , he would become a Raphael or a Michael Angelo .
“ Well , let us see what is to be derived from this gloss .
• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works .
Return to Greenwich and bring them here .
You will also see that the Greek servants hold no communication with those of this country. ” He bowed .
“ Ah , yes , that is the name , certainly .
“ At last , ” said he , “ I shall know with whom I have to do. ” They opened the door and the four men alighted. ’ ” Franz again interrupted himself , and wiped the cold drops from his brow ; there was something awful in hearing the son read aloud in trembling pallor these details of his father ’ s death , which had hitherto been a mystery .
It was Mousqueton .
She will try to seduce you , perhaps she will try to kill you .
“ Well , they fastened a thirty-six-pound ball to his feet , and threw him into the sea. ” “ Really ! ” exclaimed the Englishman .
“ Why do you like that best ? ” “ Because then I have no responsibility .
By degrees , the light of the lamps gradually faded in the hands of the marble statues which held them , and the perfumes appeared less powerful to Morrel .
There was a moment ’ s silence , and then a voice , in excellent French , although , with a foreign accent , said : “ Welcome , sir .
See , look at Fernand , and follow his example ; he is well-behaved ! ” 0051m Fernand , probably excited beyond bearing , pricked by Danglars , as the bull is by the bandilleros , was about to rush out ; for he had risen from his seat , and seemed to be collecting himself to dash headlong upon his rival , when Mercédès , smiling and graceful , lifted up her lovely head , and looked at them with her clear and bright eyes .
Monsieur de Chavigny , be so good as to lend me your cane. ” Monsieur de Chavigny handed his cane to Monsieur de Beaufort .
so much the better ! ” To that exclamation of Porthos ’ s succeeded a groaning , low and profound , which seemed to come from behind a door .
“ My faith !
If the king appeared to be the first gentleman of his kingdom , the queen was without doubt the most beautiful woman in France .
At the third he fell again .
Athos had dropped some words which proved that the conversation she had with the cardinal had fallen into outside ears ; but she could not suppose that he had dug a countermine so promptly and so boldly .
The first prince of the blood , the king ’ s uncle ! ” “ No !
“ Your affair has become more complicated since yesterday evening , my good man , and I advise you to tell the whole truth ; for your repentance alone can remove the anger of the cardinal. ” “ Why , I am ready to tell everything , ” cried Bonacieux , “ at least , all that I know .
In 2001 , the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future generations .
“ I say that he doesn ’ t suit me at all , ” said Porthos , “ and that I feel a strong itching to follow Aramis ’ s advice. ” “ By no means , my dear Porthos ; that man is a messenger of General Cromwell ; it would insure for us a poor reception , I imagine , should it be announced to him that we had twisted the neck of his confidant. ” “ Nevertheless , ” said Porthos , “ I have always noticed that Aramis gives good advice. ” “ Listen , ” returned D ’ Artagnan , “ when our embassy is finished—— ” “ Well ? ” “ If it brings us back to France—— ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , we shall see. ” At that moment the two friends reached the hotel , “ Arms of England , ” where they supped with hearty appetite and then at once proceeded to the port .
I do not say more , relying on you as you may rely on me .
D ’ Artagnan approached him , and seeing him stare so fixedly , said : “ Well , friend !
The conduct of the son in seeking to avenge his father was so natural that Château-Renaud did not seek to dissuade him , and was content with renewing his assurances of devotion .
Hurry up there , you rascal ; we are mad with hunger and thirst ! ” Bazin entered at that moment carrying a bottle in each hand .
Buckingham might have guessed that it was she who had cut off the two studs , and avenge himself for that little treachery ; but Buckingham was incapable of going to any excess against a woman , particularly if that woman was supposed to have acted from a feeling of jealousy .
“ I am not only the most miserable of queens , but the most unhappy of mothers , the most wretched of wives .
“ Be tranquil , ” murmured Milady ; “ I will avenge you—and cruelly ! ” “ _Peste ! _ ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself , “ the moment for confidences has not yet come. ” It took some time for D ’ Artagnan to resume this little dialogue ; but then all the ideas of vengeance which he had brought with him had completely vanished .
“ Monsieur , ” continued she , turning to Monte Cristo , “ will you do us the honor of passing the rest of the day with us ? ” “ Believe me , madame , I feel most grateful for your kindness , but I got out of my travelling carriage at your door this morning , and I am ignorant how I am installed in Paris , which I scarcely know ; this is but a trifling inquietude , I know , but one that may be appreciated. ” “ We shall have the pleasure another time , ” said the countess ; “ you promise that ? ” Monte Cristo inclined himself without answering , but the gesture might pass for assent .
The sound of heavy steps was heard above his head .
“ Do that , ” cried she , “ and you will have saved my life , you will have saved my honor ! ” “ Do not exaggerate the service I have the happiness to render your Majesty .
The violins began to sound with all their might , but nobody listened to them .
I am fifteen years younger than he is .
Speak ! ’ Morcerf did not reply .
“ No , my lord ; he said you had engaged to pay seventy pounds if I landed you safe and sound at Boulogne or any other port you choose in France. ” “ What do you think of all this ? ” said Athos , in a low tone to D ’ Artagnan , after explaining to him in French what the sailor had said in English .
Are you also the victim of a treachery ? ” “ No , ” said the novice , “ but of my devotion—of a devotion to a woman I loved , for whom I would have laid down my life , for whom I would give it still. ” “ And who has abandoned you—is that it ? ” “ I have been sufficiently unjust to believe so ; but during the last two or three days I have obtained proof to the contrary , for which I thank God—for it would have cost me very dear to think she had forgotten me .
D ’ Avrigny put his hand to his heart , and placed a glass before his lips .
my leave is at an end ! ” “ Do you return to Paris ? ” asked Athos , quickly .
You understand , then , Comte de la Fere , you understand , Chevalier d ’ Herblay , that I am altogether and always at your service. ” Athos and Aramis bowed and went out .
“ Ah ! ” cried the dying man , with all the effusiveness of a grief declared after long suppression , “ ah !
“ Go , sir , ” said the queen , with her most bewitching smile , “ go and return at midnight. ” And D ’ Artagnan retired , but as he passed out he glanced at the curtain through which the queen had entered and at the bottom of the tapestry he remarked the tip of a velvet slipper .
Mademoiselle Paulet had already gone ; Mademoiselle de Scudery was going .
As D ’ Artagnan had foreseen , Athos was not within .
The clock of the Invalides struck one .
I remembered him well .
Nevertheless , even in my present state of perturbation , I protest that I feel happy .
“ But the duke will not yield himself without a furious battle. ” “ Very well , ” said D ’ Artagnan , his eyes aflame , “ battle !
you , is it ?
The lawyer was a young man with light hair whose face expressed a hundred times more emotion than that which characterized the prisoner .
Then I can well understand your indignation , my dear Albert .
The baron , attracted by the noise , in his chamber gown , his sword under his arm , stood in the doorway .
When the landlady made her appearance she expressed much astonishment at seeing Planchet .
During the scene of tumult , Andrea had turned his smiling face towards the assembly ; then , leaning with one hand on the oaken rail of the dock , in the most graceful attitude possible , he said : “ Gentlemen , I assure you I had no idea of insulting the court , or of making a useless disturbance in the presence of this honorable assembly .
Eugénie , ” continued the baroness , turning towards her daughter , “ this is the Count of Monte Cristo. ” The count bowed , while Mademoiselle Danglars bent her head slightly .
Everyone hastened to purchase _moccoletti_—Franz and Albert among the rest .
The letter is here. ” And the queen laid her beautiful hand on her bosom .
Why did you give him six pistoles ? ” “ You told me to give them to him. ” “ It is true ; I am too good-natured .
“ He ?
“ Oh , ” continued Milady , “ do your wounds still make you suffer ? ” “ Yes , much , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who did not well know how to answer .
“ At least , delay the trial till the next assizes ; we shall then have six months before us. ” “ No , madame , ” said Villefort ; “ instructions have been given .
For that reason I wished to see you , to speak to you , to warn you against everyone , but especially against him .
“ Come , come with me , gentlemen ! ” exclaimed Mazarin .
A great poet !
Has Monsieur Bonacieux sent anything to you for his wife , or for any other person ?
“ And I a plain chicken , ” said Aramis .
Do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
What has happened ? ” asked the countess , as though awakening from a sleep to the realities of life ; “ did you say a misfortune ?
Athos was at home , emptying sadly a bottle of the famous Spanish wine he had brought back with him from his journey into Picardy .
“ Come , ” continued Athos , “ executioner , do your duty. ” “ Willingly , monseigneur , ” said the executioner ; “ for as I am a good Catholic , I firmly believe I am acting justly in performing my functions on this woman. ” “ That ’ s well. ” Athos made a step toward Milady .
D ’ Artagnan came to his relief with his whip in his hand .
“ Yes , yes , ” said Milady ; “ the letter is precise .
“ Pardon me , D ’ Artagnan , ” he said .
After ten minutes ’ expectation the clock struck ten ; at the fifth stroke the door opened and Lord Wilmore appeared .
“ She is not dead ; demons do not die so easily .
Franz had by degrees become accustomed to the count ’ s pallor , which had so forcibly struck him at their first meeting .
We must , therefore , watch and play a close game ; for , ” he added with a sigh , “ we two are equal , perhaps , to eight others ; but we are not equal to the four that you know of. ” “ That is true , ” said Porthos , echoing D ’ Artagnan ’ s sigh .
The duke went indoors and retired to bed , where he spent , indeed , the greater part of every day , as they had taken his books away .
Now guess what the young one did ? ” “ Tell me. ” “ He carried off the corpse , which he placed in his own bed with its face to the wall ; then he entered the empty dungeon , closed the entrance , and slipped into the sack which had contained the dead body .
The count first reached an open space and Franz followed him closely .
The fellows looked at the body of their companion , swimming in blood , and then recovering voice and legs together , ran screaming off .
D ’ Avrigny and Villefort laid him on a couch .
“ Well , madame , ” said Mazarin , bowing , “ I desire that you give me a share in your friends , as I have shared with you the little industry and talent that Heaven has given me .
The English , repulsed foot by foot , beaten in all encounters , and defeated in the passage of the Isle of Loie , were obliged to re-embark , leaving on the field of battle two thousand men , among whom were five colonels , three lieutenant colonels , two hundred and fifty captains , twenty gentlemen of rank , four pieces of cannon , and sixty flags , which were taken to Paris by Claude de St. Simon , and suspended with great pomp in the arches of Notre Dame .
He heard her approach and withdraw from the partially open door ; and twice or three times he even saw the shadow of a person intercept the light .
Comminges turned and saw Dame Nanette , her eyes flashing with anger and a broom in her hand .
“ But before he fainted , he collected all his strength to challenge you , and to defy you while challenging you. ” “ Why , this fellow must be the devil in person ! ” cried the stranger .
nay , that he can almost work a miracle ?
“ Here you are , home again , Raoul , ” said the comte .
I wished to see all , and to judge of everything for myself , hoping the explanation would be in your father ’ s favor , and that I might do him justice .
Five hundred Roman crowns are three thousand lire , and three thousand lire are a fortune for two poor orphans who are going to be married .
You will take their places and I shall not lose by the exchange .
Monsieur de Bouillon had the gout , but notwithstanding his illness , which had prevented his mounting on horseback for the last month—-that is , since Paris had been besieged—he was ready to receive the Comte de la Fere and the Chevalier d ’ Herblay .
Albert could not see the face of the countess , as it was covered with a thin veil she had put on her head , and which fell over her features in misty folds , but it seemed to him as though her voice had altered .
You know , dear D ’ Artagnan , I am nothing more than a good honest country gentleman .
“ Oh , yes , indeed , madame , ” continued Monte Cristo , “ the secret dramas of the East begin with a love philtre and end with a death potion—begin with paradise and end with—hell .
Fortunately , the mariners were used to these latitudes , and knew every rock in the Tuscan Archipelago ; for in the midst of this obscurity Franz was not without uneasiness—Corsica had long since disappeared , and Monte Cristo itself was invisible ; but the sailors seemed , like the lynx , to see in the dark , and the pilot who steered did not evince the slightest hesitation .
courage !
“ Monsieur Porthos , ” said she , “ I can assure you that you have severely punished me ; and if in the time to come you should find yourself in a similar situation , you have but to apply to me. ” “ Fie , madame , fie ! ” said Porthos , as if disgusted .
There were also less agreeable visits—for two or three times reports were spread that the cardinal had nearly been assassinated .
“ Follow me , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Where is the key you speak of ? ” “ Here it is. ” “ Ah , my lord !
The first time he saw D ’ Artagnan , “ You have come off well , ” said he to him ; “ there is your Jussac thrust paid for .
Château-Renaud , ” returned Debray , “ you only know your dull and gloomy Faubourg Saint-Germain ; do not pay any attention to him , count—live in the Chaussée d ’ Antin , that ’ s the real centre of Paris. ” “ Boulevard de l ’ Opéra , ” said Beauchamp ; “ the second floor—a house with a balcony .
Felton remained in the corridor .
D ’ Artagnan had more than once related to his friends his adventure with the stranger , as well as the apparition of the beautiful foreigner , to whom this man had confided some important missive .
“ Not here , ” he said ; “ doubtless she is in her bedroom. ” He rushed towards the door , found it bolted , and stopped , shuddering .
I opened my eyes , astonished to find myself alive and even unhurt ; a third of the squadron were lying on the ground , wounded , dead or dying .
Danglars , then , without taking a crown from his pocket , could save Morrel ; he had but to pass his word for a loan , and Morrel was saved .
I am brutal , —I not only allow it , but boast of it ; it is one of the reasons of my success in commercial business .
‘ Faith , I do not remember the name of the hotel. ” “ At the hotel of—— , ” said Porthos ; “ by my faith—nor do I remember it either. ” “ It does not matter ; and a few of those bottles of old Burgundy wine , which cured your master so quickly of his sprain ! ” “ Alas !
THE INTERIOR OF THE MUSKETEERS When D ’ Artagnan was out of the Louvre , and consulted his friends upon the use he had best make of his share of the forty pistoles , Athos advised him to order a good repast at the Pomme-de-Pin , Porthos to engage a lackey , and Aramis to provide himself with a suitable mistress .
What undertaking can have brought him to Paris ?
Two months and a half elapsed in these trips , and Edmond had become as skilful a coaster as he had been a hardy seaman ; he had formed an acquaintance with all the smugglers on the coast , and learned all the Masonic signs by which these half pirates recognize each other .
Her hands clutched her armchair ; she ground her teeth inwardly ; her eyes followed the motion of the door as it closed behind Lord de Winter and Felton , and the moment she was alone a fresh fit of despair seized her .
“ And grandpapa has become my physician , and I have the greatest confidence in him , because he knows everything. ” “ Do you then really suffer ? ” asked Morrel quickly .
She was suffering from malarial fever , and seemed dying by inches .
[ 17 ] The Genoese conspirator .
“ Well , ” said Beauchamp , “ let them now say that drama is unnatural ! ” “ _Ma foi ! _ ” said Château-Renaud , “ I would rather end my career like M. de Morcerf ; a pistol-shot seems quite delightful compared with this catastrophe. ” “ And moreover , it kills , ” said Beauchamp .
“ Oh , what is the matter ? ” cried Dantès .
If I am not mistaken we have to do with a gentleman. ” “ A gentleman ! ” exclaimed Athos .
It was a Béarn pony , from twelve to fourteen years old , yellow in his hide , without a hair in his tail , but not without windgalls on his legs , which , though going with his head lower than his knees , rendering a martingale quite unnecessary , contrived nevertheless to perform his eight leagues a day .
It was one of the Gascon ’ s artifices to hide his deep cunning occasionally under an appearance of rough loyalty .
As for Porthos , he looked inquiringly at D ’ Artagnan .
Five minutes later the carriage stopped , having reached Cours la Reine .
All this the young man perceived , and yet , to his praise we speak it , he did not hesitate a second .
“ My idea ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Yes , indeed , ” said he ; “ I think I have seen you and known you formerly. ” “ Yes , Caderousse , you have seen me ; you knew me once. ” “ Who , then , are you ?
Monsieur , ” said the old man , “ ask me nothing ; for if I dared tell you what I have seen , certainly no good would befall me. ” “ You have , then , seen something ? ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Raoul conquered the very natural feeling of timidity he experienced and approaching the prince : “ My lord , ” he said , “ will you permit me to hazard a few words on that subject , which will perhaps relieve you of your uncertainty ? ” The prince turned and seemed to cover the young man with a single glance ; he smiled on perceiving that he was a child hardly fifteen years old .
Oh , how happy you make us !
“ What do you mean ? ” “ Other men may have entered before them and waited for them. ” “ We can find out , ” said Grimaud .
and why have you such an air of sadness aboard ? ” “ A great misfortune , M. Morrel , ” replied the young man , “ a great misfortune , for me especially !
As for Porthos ’ s coat , a blow from a halberd had cut it open on the flank and a pistol shot had cut his feather in two .
You do not avoid going to war by that means ; you see , the cardinal is about to make the next campaign , helm on head and partisan in hand .
“ I , ” replied the Gascon , “ I believe in devotion as a word at one ’ s baptism , for instance , which naturally comes before one ’ s proper name ; every one is naturally more or less devout , certainly ; but there should be at the end of one ’ s devotion something to gain. ” “ And your friend , for instance ; what does he expect to have at the end of his devotion ? ” “ Well , my lord , my friend has three magnificent estates : that of Vallon , at Corbeil ; that of Bracieux , in the Soissonais ; and that of Pierrefonds , in the Valois .
Madame de Villefort at this really did turn pale , and was very nearly angry with this household plague , who answered to the name of Edward ; but the count , on the contrary , smiled , and appeared to look at the boy complacently , which caused the maternal heart to bound again with joy and enthusiasm .
You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others .
“ Ah , then , you wish to ask advice of me ? ” “ Yes ; I do wish to ask your advice , ” said Madame Danglars with anxious expectation .
No , there is nothing in the world to resemble you in worth and goodness !
“ Willingly , ” replied De Chatillon .
Athos examined it and became very pale .
He threw them on the table without looking at them , so sure was he of victory ; D ’ Artagnan turned aside to conceal his ill humor .
“ Ah , ” said he , “ here we are , at the last act of the tragedy .
on !
“ Oh !
“ I have always been an honest man , and , as far as lay in my power , I have done good. ” “ I do not deny it , ” returned the count ; “ but why are you thus agitated .
As the night before , D ’ Artagnan did not return home till five o ’ clock in the morning .
As perhaps our readers are not familiar with the slang of the Rue de Jerusalem , and as it is fifteen years since we applied this word for the first time to this thing , allow us to explain to them what is a mousetrap .
“ I do not tell you this , madame , to terrify you ; no , it is even ridiculous for me to name it to you , and , believe me , I take no heed of such dreams .
I took a wax-candle in one hand , and with the other groped about for a piece of paper ( my match-box being empty ) , with which I proposed to get a light from the small flame still playing on the embers .
help me ! ” “ Here I am , sir ! ” said Athos , leaning and stretching out his arm to Mordaunt with that air of dignity and nobility of soul habitual to him ; “ here I am , take my hand and jump into our boat. ” Mordaunt made a last effort—rose—seized the hand thus extended to him and grasped it with the vehemence of despair .
“ _Pardieu ! _ ” cried Albert , “ you are not a preacher , to remain standing ! ” The host sat down , after having made each of them a respectful bow , which meant that he was ready to tell them all they wished to know concerning Luigi Vampa .
They needed breakfast , and alighted at the door of an _auberge_ , recommended by a sign representing St. Martin giving half his cloak to a poor man .
He committed a crime , it is true ; but he repented of it. ” And the four friends quit the room , leaving to Planchet and Fourreau the duty of paying mortuary honors to Brisemont .
“ What is he contriving ? ” asked Aramis .
“ My dear count , ” said Albert , advancing to meet him , “ permit me to repeat the poor thanks I offered last night , and to assure you that the remembrance of all I owe to you will never be effaced from my memory ; believe me , as long as I live , I shall never cease to dwell with grateful recollection on the prompt and important service you rendered me ; and also to remember that to you I am indebted even for my life. ” “ My very good friend and excellent neighbor , ” replied the count , with a smile , “ you really exaggerate my trifling exertions .
I will go to the queen. ” And Louis XIII. , opening the door of communication , passed into the corridor which led from his apartments to those of Anne of Austria .
I believe , then , that it is not on account of any intrigues of her own that my wife has been arrested , but because of those of a lady much greater than herself. ” “ Ah , ah !
Where does your highness wish to go ? ” “ To some elevated spot whence I can look down on Lens and the surrounding country—— ” “ In that case , I ’ m your man. ” “ I can trust you—you are a true Frenchman ? ” “ I am an old soldier of Rocroy , my lord. ” “ Here , ” said the prince , handing him a purse , “ here is for Rocroy .
You arrive , and your presence was likely to afford me delightful company ; yet I expect , in all probability , to quit the convent at any moment. ” “ How , you are going soon ? ” asked Milady .
at the siege of Besancon I was in the trenches .
“ Much obliged to you , Monsieur Dulaurier .
One thing alone frightened her ; that was the remembrance of her husband , the Comte de la Fère , whom she had believed dead , or at least expatriated , and whom she found again in Athos—the best friend of D ’ Artagnan .
‘ They laugh best who laugh last ! ’ ” Having delivered himself of this pompous address , uttered with a degree of energy that left the baron almost out of breath , he bowed to the assembled party and withdrew to his drawing-room , whose sumptuous furnishings of white and gold had caused a great sensation in the Chaussée d ’ Antin .
“ Aha ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ they ’ re coming toward us. ” “ So much the worse for them , ” said Porthos .
The Insult At the banker ’ s door Beauchamp stopped Morcerf .
I must at least have drunk for my part a hundred and fifty bottles. ” “ Mercy ! ” cried the host , “ if the lackey has drunk only half as much as the master , I am a ruined man. ” “ Grimaud is a well-bred lackey .
The Promise It was indeed Maximilian Morrel , who had passed a wretched existence since the previous day .
The soldier replied by pointing out to him an officer who was conversing , on foot , his hand upon the neck of a horse on which the individual to whom he was talking sat .
Cavalcanti was evidently embarrassed ; he bowed to Morcerf , who replied with the most impertinent look possible .
“ It is true , ” she said , “ the arch hypocrite—see ! ” “ I see , ” said Mazarin , “ that everybody kneels before him , although he be but coadjutor , whilst I , were I in his place , though I am cardinal , should be torn to pieces .
I have only the letters of Ali Tepelini , which I have placed before you ; the ring , a token of his good-will , which is here ; and , lastly , the most convincing proof I can offer , after an anonymous attack , and that is the absence of any witness against my veracity and the purity of my military life. ’ “ A murmur of approbation ran through the assembly ; and at this moment , Albert , had nothing more transpired , your father ’ s cause had been gained .
PORTHOS Chapter XXVI .
“ When I presented myself before you for the first time in London , it was to ask you what had become of my fortune ; the second time it was to demand who had sullied my name ; and this time I come before you to ask a question far more terrible than any other , to say to you as God said to the first murderer : ‘ Cain , what hast thou done to thy brother Abel ? ’ My lord , what have you done with your sister—your sister , who was my mother ? ” De Winter shrank back from the fire of those scorching eyes .
Nevertheless , when he waited at the dinner given by his master , and saw him take out a handful of gold to pay for it , he believed his fortune made , and returned thanks to heaven for having thrown him into the service of such a Crœsus .
You come to demand money of me—of a Musketeer !
But I know you to be a man of honor. ” The count again struck the gong .
His next act was to purchase a dog from one of his keepers .
Though his coming was announced in a very low tone , Madame de Saint-Méran arose from her pillow .
“ What did your father tell you , M. Morrel ? ” said he eagerly .
The duke was the grandson of Henry IV .
I must first tell you that Monsieur de Rochefort is—— ” Planchet hesitated .
The groom turned toward him with a look of surprise , but made no reply .
They conducted me to the Chatelet , where I slept soundly , being very sure that on the next day I should go forth free .
“ Your highness ’ s most devoted servant , “ In the Bastile , as elsewhere , “ Comte de Rochefort. ” The duke , who had latterly been allowed a fire , burned the letter , but kept the ball , and went to bed , hiding the ball under his bolster .
If I were a ‘ Frondeur , ’ ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I should knock here and should be sure of a good supper .
As for me , I remain in my humility and indolence .
Never , till then , had I placed any confidence in presentiments , but now I can not help believing them , Valentine .
“ How old is she ? ” inquired the Vicomte de Bragelonne .
You are a woman at once full of spirit and resignation ; I have become simple in my tastes , and am without passion , I hope .
“ But I tell you that I am the mistress of the house , gentlemen !
As for you , Raoul , I am sure it is your fault , some giddiness or folly. ” “ No , sir , I assure you , ” muttered Raoul , “ it is not. ” “ Oh , no , no , I declare it is not ! ” cried the young girl , while Raoul turned pale at the idea of his being perhaps the cause of her disaster .
“ What did he say ? ” “ Some parting words to his friends. ” “ His friends ! ” murmured Cromwell .
His life is dependent on the information he has given us ; if it is true , he shall be free ; if false , let him be shot. ” The prisoner was led away .
The first thing necessary to render an act valid is , that the notary should be thoroughly convinced that he has faithfully interpreted the will and wishes of the person dictating the act .
Come , Porthos ; come , Mousqueton. ” They all mounted the horses as quickly as possible .
The minister bowed his head , and while a deep color overspread his cheeks , he stammered out : “ By the telegraph , sire. ” Louis XVIII .
Come , come , gentlemen , remove the fellow. ” And D ’ Artagnan pushed the half-stupefied mercer among the Guards , saying to him , “ You are a shabby old fellow , my dear .
“ You , Morcerf ? ” replied the secretary , resting on the stairs .
Who knows what may happen , or how long the attack may last ? ” In spite of the magnitude of the misfortune which thus suddenly frustrated his hopes , Dantès did not lose his presence of mind , but descended into the passage , dragging his unfortunate companion with him ; then , half-carrying , half-supporting him , he managed to reach the abbé ’ s chamber , when he immediately laid the sufferer on his bed .
He replied in monosyllables and Athos and Aramis looked significantly at one another .
How are you to get away from here ?
He kept himself upright and dreamed , without sleeping .
Do you recollect that ball , count , where you produced such an effect ? ” 50121m “ No , I do not , ” replied Monte Cristo , without even knowing of what or to whom he was speaking , so much was he occupied in watching Morrel , who was holding his breath with emotion .
Poor Edmond , he was cruelly deceived ; but it was fortunate that he never knew , or he might have found it more difficult , when on his deathbed , to pardon his enemies .
Monsieur !
It was noon , and Monte Cristo had set apart one hour to be passed in the apartments of Haydée , as though his oppressed spirit could not all at once admit the feeling of pure and unmixed joy , but required a gradual succession of calm and gentle emotions to prepare his mind to receive full and perfect happiness , in the same manner as ordinary natures demand to be inured by degrees to the reception of strong or violent sensations .
“ I will descend with my eyes shut. ” “ Have you confidence in me ? ” said Felton .
Come , my lord , you shall be treated like a prince , as you are. ” “ A fallen prince ! ” exclaimed Mazarin , piteously .
“ Is all safe , M. Morrel ; and I think you will be satisfied on that head .
LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from .
I confess myself conquered .
After the king and the cardinal , M. de Tréville was the man whose name was perhaps most frequently repeated by the military , and even by citizens .
You have credit with your landlord , then ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Yes , ” said Grimaud .
“ Are you on the ground ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Egad ! ” cried Aramis , “ you set me thinking .
Be pleased to give me that scrap of paper so that I may justify , by a pretext at least , my abandoning my countrymen .
But I say no more , madame ; it is really as if I were prescribing for you. ” The clock struck half-past six , and a lady was announced , a friend of Madame de Villefort , who came to dine with her .
“ ‘ Well , as after my death the command devolves on you as mate , assume the command , and bear up for the Island of Elba , disembark at Porto-Ferrajo , ask for the grand-marshal , give him this letter—perhaps they will give you another letter , and charge you with a commission .
“ Yes. ” “ Very well .
At the first sound of the bell they hastened into the Corso by the Via Vittoria .
Then came a skirmish , the more terrible because it had no definite object ; the more melancholy , because those engaged in it knew not for whom they were fighting .
At a distance Albert thought it was a complete suit , for he counted from the ace to the ten .
The jailer , therefore , only grumbled .
The demands in that programme must be granted. ” “ We were almost agreed on those , ” replied Mazarin ; “ let us pass on to private and personal stipulations. ” “ You suppose , then , that there are some ? ” said Aramis , smiling .
Messieurs Musketeers , I will not have this haunting of bad places , this quarreling in the streets , this swordplay at the crossways ; and above all , I will not have occasion given for the cardinal ’ s Guards , who are brave , quiet , skillful men who never put themselves in a position to be arrested , and who , besides , never allow themselves to be arrested , to laugh at you !
It is true he had been playing the day before. ” “ Playing the day before !
But at the sight of the young man , who detached himself from the wall like a statue walking from its niche , and at the noise of the steps which she heard resound behind her , Mme .
“ Oh , sir ! ” he cried , passing the bottle to Porthos , “ we are saved—the bark is supplied with provisions. ” This intelligence restored every one save Athos to gayety .
Now I thought that the butcher would not let his horse out like that without knowing where it was going .
“ I have taken from you one _carte blanche_ to give you another .
Oh , my father , must your past career always interfere with my successes ? ” Suddenly a light passed over his face , a smile played round his set mouth , and his haggard eyes were fixed in thought .
Shows how with Threat and Pen more is effected than by the Sword .
It is the count ’ s reply. ” Poor Kitty became as pale as death ; she suspected what the letter contained .
But instead of obeying him , the servants stood watching M. d ’ Avrigny , who ran to Valentine , and raised her in his arms .
my nephew is not yet king , and you know Laporte has told us twenty times that he himself is in need of almost everything. ” “ Then let us pray to Heaven , ” said the girl .
This operation proved as great a success as the first .
But too late by a minute , unfortunate , unfortunate that I am ! ” Felton made no resistance .
’ Tis like a duel .
Permit me , then , my dear Athos , without inquiring further about our friend , to pay my respects to M. Planchet. ” “ Ah , monsieur le chevalier , ” said Planchet , bowing .
But Parry withdrew , thinking he was dreaming .
The position in which he had left him was critical .
Bonacieux ; “ and your regiment , your captain ? ” “ By my soul , you had made me forget all that , dear Constance !
you do not give us a day—no , not even an hour before your departure ? ” “ My carriage is at the door , madame , and I must be in Rome in five days. ” “ But does Maximilian go to Rome ? ” exclaimed Emmanuel .
The count ’ s eye expanded ; he knew Albert had insulted the count dreadfully , and that in every country in the world such an insult would lead to a deadly duel .
They deputed ten of their number to wait upon the Duke of Orleans , who , according to his custom , affected popularity .
“ What the devil shall we do now , gentlemen ? ” cried Athos .
The old man was attired in a suit of glistening watered silk , trimmed with steel buttons , beautifully cut and polished .
Depraved as a girl , adulterous as a wife , an unnatural sister , homicide , poisoner , execrated by all who knew her , by every nation that had been visited by her , she died accursed by Heaven and earth. ” A sob which Mordaunt could not repress burst from his throat and his livid face became suffused with blood ; he clenched his fists , sweat covered his face , his hair , like Hamlet ’ s , stood on end , and racked with fury he cried out : “ Silence , sir !
“ Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s last request was , that the marriage might not be delayed ; must I let things take their course ? ” Noirtier did not move .
As soon as the door was closed : “ Sire , ” said Aramis , speaking rapidly , “ you are saved ; the London executioner has vanished .
Whoever did it writes well .
The messenger resisted ; my brother killed him. ” “ Oh ! ” said Mme .
Beside him glided Caderousse , whose desire to partake of the good things provided for the wedding party had induced him to become reconciled to the Dantès , father and son , although there still lingered in his mind a faint and unperfect recollection of the events of the preceding night ; just as the brain retains on waking in the morning the dim and misty outline of a dream .
Mme .
On his left was Porthos , whilst D ’ Artagnan was on his right ; each guarded a door and served as a rampart to him on either side .
The name of D ’ Artagnan was not altogether new to Mazarin , who , although he did not arrive in France before the year 1634 or 1635 , that is to say , about eight or nine years after the events which we have related in a preceding narrative , * fancied he had heard it pronounced as that of one who was said to be a model of courage , address and loyalty .
As she went downstairs she gave the keys of Valentine ’ s room to M. de Villefort , so that no one could reach the sick-room excepting through that of Madame de Villefort and little Edward .
He immediately made a new point in advance , rubbed his horse down with some heath and leaves of trees , and placed himself across the road , about two hundred paces from the camp .
The captive who was the source of so much alarm to the cardinal and whose means of escape disturbed the repose of the whole court , was wholly unconscious of the terror he caused at the Palais Royal .
I might have gone up to him and killed him .
“ So you would rob the Count of Monte Cristo ? ” continued the false abbé .
“ Yes , ” said Danglars , taking it from beyond his reach ; “ and as what I say and do is merely in jest , and I , amongst the first and foremost , should be sorry if anything happened to Dantès—the worthy Dantès—look here ! ” And taking the letter , he squeezed it up in his hands and threw it into a corner of the arbor .
He is a young , ingenuous , pure man who seems virtuous ; him there are means of destroying. ” And Milady went to bed and fell asleep with a smile upon her lips .
“ Be satisfied with being a plain , straightforward citizen , and turn to that side which offers the most advantages. ” “ Eh , eh ! ” said Bonacieux , slapping a plump , round bag , which returned of sound a money ; “ what do you think of this , Madame Preacher ? ” “ Whence comes that money ? ” “ You do not guess ? ” “ From the cardinal ? ” “ From him , and from my friend the Comte de Rochefort. ” “ The Comte de Rochefort !
“ Yes. ” “ Must I leave alone ? ” “ No. ” “ Whom am I to take with me ?
When he reached the threshold of the door the prisoner stopped .
No object affects me ; and I even feel here , at the bottom of my heart , something which speaks for you .
“ Go to the assistance of Madame de Villefort , ” he said to the nurse .
“ I thought I did not mistake .
“ Let ’ s see .
“ We are then reconciled , dear Monsieur Porthos ? ” said she , simpering .
Du Vallon next me .
It was the Island of Monte Cristo .
During the time occupied by the interview we have just detailed , Madame de Villefort had gone to visit M. Noirtier .
The keeper was so stupefied at this scene that he took Andrea by the hands and began examining his person , attributing the sudden submission of the inmates of the Lions ’ Den to something more substantial than mere fascination .
if I thought one of you knew that the young gentleman was the friend of his excellency , I would blow his brains out with my own hand ! ” 20211m “ Well , ” said the count , turning towards Franz , “ I told you there was some mistake in this. ” “ Are you not alone ? ” asked Vampa with uneasiness .
The same evening , when the flock was safe at the farm , the little Luigi hastened to the smith at Palestrina , took a large nail , heated and sharpened it , and formed a sort of stylus .
“ Yes , ” replied the abbé , “ it is very affecting. ” “ Mercédès came again , and she found him so altered that she was even more anxious than before to have him taken to her own home .
40272m “ And do you know , ” said Valentine , “ what reason grandpapa gives for leaving this house. ” Noirtier looked at Valentine to impose silence , but she did not notice him ; her looks , her eyes , her smile , were all for Morrel .
I was looking around for Porthos when I saw near me a head which had been broken , but which , for better or worse , had been patched with plaster and with black silk .
“ What do you want ? ” asked he , with a more sorrowful than angry tone .
IN FRANCE Chapter LXI .
“ Join the escort ! ” cried Aramis .
“ Speak to me not as a magistrate , but as a friend ; and when I am in bitter anguish of spirit , do not tell me that I ought to be gay. ” Villefort bowed .
La Carconte still kept her eyes fixed on her husband , but as he made no sign of changing his position , she extended her hard , bony hand , and touched him on the forehead .
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States .
A few steps in advance of the gate of Saint Honore they met a third troop ; this latter party was composed of ill-looking fellows , who resembled bandits more than anything else ; they were the men of the beggar of Saint Eustache .
“ He felt that , influenced by her ambitions and coquettish disposition , Teresa might escape him .
Near her was Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly , who thanked the count for the letters of introduction he had so kindly given her for Italy , which she intended immediately to make use of .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , “ the wood that I am carting is his ; I cut it in his copse and I am taking it to the chateau. ” D ’ Artagnan determined not to question this man ; he did not wish to hear from another what he had himself said to Planchet .
“ Speak , gentlemen , ” said the prince , saluting them ; “ first speak ; we shall have time afterward for the usual compliments .
Where is he ? ” “ Waiting below , in my carriage. ” “ Seek him at once. ” “ I hasten to do so. ” The duke left the royal presence with the speed of a young man ; his really sincere royalism made him youthful again .
Happily Marie and a follower of hers named Kitty could disguise themselves admirably in men ’ s clothes .
Overpowered with agitation , the poisoner succeeded in groping her way to the door , and reached her room in an agony of fear .
Is he a shepherd or a nobleman ? —young or old ? —tall or short ?
But at the moment Mousqueton came to announce that the horses were ready , and they were arising from table , the stranger proposed to Porthos to drink the health of the cardinal .
You will , in turn , enter it , my dear d ’ Épinay , for you will soon be numbered as one of the family .
Caderousse lingered for a moment , then taking leave of old Dantès , he went downstairs to rejoin Danglars , who awaited him at the corner of the Rue Senac .
At the expiration of ten minutes the clerk returned with a beaming countenance .
When we went up to the enemy it was slowly ; we were forbidden to draw first and we were marching toward the Spaniards , who were on a height with lowered muskets .
The evening passed as evenings mostly pass at Italian theatres ; that is , not in listening to the music , but in paying visits and conversing .
if Mousqueton were here !
Through the opening an arm was passed to find the fastening , then a second ; the window turned on its hinges , and a man entered .
As the distance increased between the travellers and Paris , almost superhuman serenity appeared to surround the count ; he might have been taken for an exile about to revisit his native land .
Here is night coming on ; by daybreak we shall have reached our retreat , and nobody can guess where we are .
Pray relate it to me ! ” Caderousse seemed to reflect for a few moments , then said , “ No , truly , it would take up too much time. ” “ Well , my good friend , ” returned the abbé , in a tone that indicated utter indifference on his part , “ you are at liberty , either to speak or be silent , just as you please ; for my own part , I respect your scruples and admire your sentiments ; so let the matter end .
“ I believe not .
You never come to me without conferring pleasure .
Grimaud drew near and kissed it respectfully .
Nevertheless , I carefully preserved my ladder against one of those unforeseen opportunities of which I spoke just now , and which sudden chance frequently brings about. ” While affecting to be deeply engaged in examining the ladder , the mind of Dantès was , in fact , busily occupied by the idea that a person so intelligent , ingenious , and clear-sighted as the abbé might probably be able to solve the dark mystery of his own misfortunes , where he himself could see nothing .
The commissary , who had till this time held his head down over his papers , looked up to see what sort of person he had to do with .
Perhaps , not being endowed with the endurance of Athos , who seemed to be made of iron , he would have preferred a bath in the river Seine of which he had heard so much , and afterward his bed ; but the Comte de la Fere had spoken and he had no thought but to obey .
“ Egad !
“ He , that man ! ” “ What man ? ” “ That cursed man , my evil genius , whom I have always met with when threatened by some misfortune , he who accompanied that horrible woman when I met her for the first time , he whom I was seeking when I offended our Athos , he whom I saw on the very morning Madame Bonacieux was abducted .
The cardinal was left free to carry on the siege , without having , at least at the present , anything to fear on the part of the English .
“ Let us be the avant guard , ” said he to Porthos , “ and find good quarters at Saint Germain ; nobody will think of us , and for my part I am greatly fatigued. ” “ As for me , ” replied Porthos , “ I am falling asleep , which is strange , considering we have not had any fighting ; truly the Parisians are idiots. ” “ Or rather , we are very clever , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Alas ! ” he said to himself , “ if I only had for a confessor one of those lights of the church , whose soul has sounded all the mysteries of life , all the littlenesses of greatness , perhaps his utterance would overawe the voice that wails within my soul .
“ By men of heart I mean men of courage .
During this time the executioner had raised his mace , and signed to them to get out of the way ; the criminal strove to rise , but , ere he had time , the mace fell on his left temple .
The signatures were perfectly legal .
His task was the more difficult , as there was no board to support him .
Why , the man must owe me a fearful grudge. ” “ Does his action appear like that of an enemy ? ” “ No ; certainly not. ” “ Well , then—— ” “ And so he is in Paris ? ” “ Yes. ” “ And what effect does he produce ? ” “ Why , ” said Albert , “ he was talked about for a week ; then the coronation of the queen of England took place , followed by the theft of Mademoiselle Mars ’ s diamonds ; and so people talked of something else. ” “ My good fellow , ” said Château-Renaud , “ the count is your friend and you treat him accordingly .
“ Count , count ! ” said he .
Ah !
“ Good , quite right ! ” cried Mordaunt , springing off his horse .
What has M. Franz to do with it ?
I was not rich ; my life was in constant danger ; I could not seek them , to my great regret. ’ The president frowned imperceptibly .
“ I suspect , ” said he , “ a tall , dark man , of lofty carriage , who has the air of a great lord .
As I had expected , I found some difficulty in obtaining access to the grand-marshal ; but I sent the ring I had received from the captain to him , and was instantly admitted .
The two oarsmen bent to their work , and the little boat glided away as rapidly as possible in the midst of the thousand vessels which choke up the narrow way which leads between the two rows of ships from the mouth of the harbor to the Quai d ’ Orléans .
D ’ Artagnan entered after the cardinal , and behind D ’ Artagnan the door was guarded .
It is deeply engraved on my heart , and , after what you have just said , I remember that only. ” Château-Renaud and Beauchamp looked at each other ; the impression was the same on both of them , and the tone in which Morcerf had just expressed his thanks was so determined that the position would have become embarrassing for all if the conversation had continued .
I know you to be a man of resolution ; and your services , well directed , instead of leading you to ill , might be very advantageous to you .
Wealth does not necessarily produce Happiness .
Therefore , leaving directions at every place for Grimaud , they took a crossroad which conducted the little troop by the bank of a small stream flowing into the Lys .
The last spy that was taken was the bearer of a letter .
The door opened ; two guards received Bonacieux in their arms from the officer who supported him .
Here it is ! ” The hostler , enchanted with the good day ’ s work he had done , returned to the yard .
It was like an acute pain which gnawed at his heart , and then thrilled through his whole body .
“ Well , be it so ! ” said she .
Oh , do not say so ; it will break my resolutions. ” “ But not mine , mother , ” replied Albert .
Albert bathed , took his supper , and went to bed .
“ Come , my friend , ” said Danglars , seeing that he made no impression on Peppino , “ you will not refuse me a glass of wine ? ” “ I have already told you that we do not sell at retail. ” “ Well , then , let me have a bottle of the least expensive. ” “ They are all the same price. ” “ And what is that ? ” “ Twenty-five thousand francs a bottle. ” “ Tell me , ” cried Danglars , in a tone whose bitterness Harpagon30 alone has been capable of revealing— “ tell me that you wish to despoil me of all ; it will be sooner over than devouring me piecemeal. ” “ It is possible such may be the master ’ s intention. ” “ The master ? —who is he ? ” “ The person to whom you were conducted yesterday. ” “ Where is he ? ” “ Here. ” “ Let me see him. ” “ Certainly. ” And the next moment Luigi Vampa appeared before Danglars .
The hostess replied only by gasps .
At the end of twelve days , after having made a splendid dinner , he reckoned his accounts , and found that he had only 50,000 francs left .
Mazarin contemplated these proceedings with a thoughtful glance .
But return to your question. ” 30151m “ Does Mademoiselle Danglars object to this marriage with M. de Morcerf on account of loving another ? ” “ I told you I was not on terms of strict intimacy with Eugénie. ” “ Yes , but girls tell each other secrets without being particularly intimate ; own , now , that you did question her on the subject .
Peppino walked with a firm step , doubtless aware of what awaited him .
They knew the count ’ s energetic and violent temper ; it must be , indeed , a dreadful blow which would deprive him of courage to defend himself .
“ I know it ” ; and the duke put the quill to the paper .
But I could find nothing—absolutely nothing .
and did you catch any of his words ? ” “ I did ; but they were uttered in the Romaic dialect .
I was without a light in that room ; when the wind shook all the doors , behind which I continually expected to see some spy concealed , I trembled .
The count ’ s well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid of the police , whose interference might seriously affect him who sends this advice .
‘ Well , read it ; he demands your head. ’ 40078m “ My father answered with a loud laugh , which was more frightful than even threats would have been , and he had not ceased when two reports of a pistol were heard ; he had fired them himself , and had killed two men .
“ Is this the man ? ” asked the captain , who was attentively reading Plutarch ’ s _Life of Alexander_ .
If you are not located in the United States , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook .
You shall be my body-guard .
If we can succeed in saving the king it will be good ; if we die for him it will be grand. ” “ So you know beforehand you must perish ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
What is there I would not do to evince my earnest gratitude ! ” “ That is right , ” cried the marquise .
“ Let me see , ” said the count ; “ are you not the Marquis Bartolomeo Cavalcanti ? ” “ Bartolomeo Cavalcanti , ” joyfully replied the Italian ; “ yes , I am really he. ” “ Ex-major in the Austrian service ? ” “ Was I a major ? ” timidly asked the old soldier .
However proud you may be , you will not refuse to accept one of them , and to request your three companions to accept the others—that is , in order to make war against us .
Porthos boasted of the strength of Mousqueton , who was big enough to thrash four men of ordinary size .
“ Calm and dignified , ” said he .
Sit down , dear count , and go on with your story. ” “ At this point I have to accuse myself of a fault , madame .
Now , let us return to the first .
Live the Guards ! ” M. de Busigny was the first to come and shake Athos by the hand , and acknowledge that the wager was lost .
Then an idea came to him which harmonized everything .
Roman Bandits Chapter 34 .
In passing through the gate , the hilt of the lieutenant ’ s sword was caught in the grating and he was obliged to pull off his cloak ; in doing so he showed the butt end of his pistols and a ray of the moon was reflected on the shining metal .
“ And that house in which the plenipotentiaries are , ” asked Athos , “ belongs to—— ” “ To Monsieur de Chanleu , who commands your troops at Charenton .
Are you going to leave me ? ” “ I am going on a journey , dear child , ” said Monte Cristo , with an expression of infinite tenderness and melancholy ; “ and if any misfortune should happen to me—— ” The count stopped .
“ Exactly. ” “ He lives at the end of the yard , on the left , on the third story. ” 40132m Andrea went as she directed him , and on the third floor he found a hare ’ s paw , which , by the hasty ringing of the bell , it was evident he pulled with considerable ill-temper .
Madame de Villefort had placed herself in the shadow behind a velvet curtain , and as she constantly bent over her child , it was difficult to read the expression of her face .
The carriage stopped , the officer descended , approached the guardhouse , a dozen soldiers came out and formed themselves in order ; Dantès saw the reflection of their muskets by the light of the lamps on the quay .
But now it is different ; I have lost all that bound me to life , death smiles and invites me to repose ; I die after my own manner , I die exhausted and broken-spirited , as I fall asleep when I have paced three thousand times round my cell , —that is thirty thousand steps , or about ten leagues. ” No sooner had this idea taken possession of him than he became more composed , arranged his couch to the best of his power , ate little and slept less , and found existence almost supportable , because he felt that he could throw it off at pleasure , like a worn-out garment .
“ I do not know—I only guess it , because that sort of thing is generally found in prisoners ’ cells. ” “ Yes , sir , a rope-ladder and tools. ” “ And have you them yet ? ” “ No , sir ; I sold them to visitors , who considered them great curiosities ; but I have still something left. ” “ What is it ? ” asked the count , impatiently .
Morrel , evidently discomposed , came to meet Monte Cristo less with the intention of receiving him than to exclude his entry .
Monsieur Groslow is perhaps rather hasty , it ’ s true , but at bottom I have discovered two good qualities in him—he is conceited and stupid. ” Porthos opened his eyes in amazement ; Athos and Aramis looked at one another and smiled ; they knew D ’ Artagnan , and knew that he did nothing without a purpose .
I do not ask you for liberty , as a guilty one would , nor for vengeance , as would a pagan .
It must be a very irksome office to be the father of a grown-up daughter ; it seems to make one feverish , and to raise one ’ s pulse to ninety beats a minute until the deed is done. ” “ But M. d ’ Épinay , unlike you , bears his misfortune patiently. ” “ Still more , he talks seriously about the matter , puts on a white tie , and speaks of his family .
So that for a trifling sum he was as well lodged , and as perfectly shut out from observation , as the inhabitants of the finest mansion in the Faubourg St. Germain .
They arrived that very moment at the gate of the town , guarded by two sentinels .
Oh , it is impossible ! —utterly impossible ! ” “ What I have said , I have said , ” answered Caderousse .
Villefort retired to his study , and d ’ Avrigny left to summon the doctor of the mayoralty , whose office it is to examine bodies after decease , and who is expressly named “ the doctor of the dead. ” M. Noirtier could not be persuaded to quit his grandchild .
“ So much the worse , and so much the better ! ” It need not be said that D ’ Artagnan was still thinking of the husband .
I shall be expecting you , and if you fail to come , I shall think—for how do I know to the contrary ? —that this house , which has remained uninhabited for twenty years , must have some gloomy tradition or dreadful legend connected with it. ” “ I will come , count , —I will be sure to come , ” said Villefort eagerly .
The sight of this officer recalled Villefort from the third heaven to earth ; he composed his face , as we have before described , and said , “ I have read the letter , sir , and you have acted rightly in arresting this man ; now inform me what you have discovered concerning him and the conspiracy. ” “ We know nothing as yet of the conspiracy , monsieur ; all the papers found have been sealed up and placed on your desk .
You must have had enough for today .
Anne , trembling with anger and scarlet with humiliation , left the room , shutting the door violently after her .
The young man was too well acquainted with the business of the house , not to feel that a great catastrophe hung over the Morrel family .
Come , recover. ” The procureur dropped his head ; his teeth chattered like those of a man under a violent attack of fever , and yet he was deadly pale .
“ Call Madame de Villefort ! —Wake Madame de Villefort ! ” cried the procureur from the door of his chamber , which apparently he scarcely dared to leave .
Valentine was sitting at a little distance from them , timidly awaiting the moment when she should be obliged to speak .
At last , as Albert was looking at his watch for about the hundredth time , at the beginning of the second act the door opened , and Monte Cristo entered , dressed in black , and , leaning over the front of the box , looked around the pit .
“ Now , ” said Monte Cristo , turning towards Morrel , “ I may depend upon you , may I not ? ” “ Certainly , ” said Morrel , “ I am at your service , count ; still—— ” “ What ? ” “ It is desirable I should know the real cause. ” “ That is to say , you would rather not ? ” “ No. ” “ The young man himself is acting blindfolded , and knows not the true cause , which is known only to God and to me ; but I give you my word , Morrel , that God , who does know it , will be on our side. ” “ Enough , ” said Morrel ; “ who is your second witness ? ” “ I know no one in Paris , Morrel , on whom I could confer that honor besides you and your brother Emmanuel .
Grimaud Speaks .
Nevertheless , she remained motionless .
He had at first an idea of crossing by the ferry ; but on gaining the riverside , he had mechanically put his hand into his pocket , and perceived that he had not wherewithal to pay his passage .
There for some time he enjoyed the fresh breeze which played on his brow , and listened to the dash of the waves on the beach , that left against the rocks a lace of foam as white as silver .
“ Come in , ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan ; and another servant entered .
But since you abuse my confidence , since you have devised a new torture after I thought I had exhausted them all , then , Count of Monte Cristo my pretended benefactor—then , Count of Monte Cristo , the universal guardian , be satisfied , you shall witness the death of your friend ; ” and Morrel , with a maniacal laugh , again rushed towards the pistols .
“ Yes , sir , and I think I have the honor of addressing Count Andrea Cavalcanti ? ” “ Count Andrea Cavalcanti , ” repeated the young man , accompanying his words with a bow .
In a moment or two the conversation ceased , and the three Guardsmen and the Musketeer , after having cordially shaken hands , separated , the Guardsmen going one way and Aramis another .
After closing the door carefully behind him Mordaunt glided into the subterranean passage , sheathing on the way his now useless sword , and thus reached the neighboring house , where he paused to examine himself and to take breath .
As to the commencement of an intrigue between her and M. de Wardes , our presumptuous hero gave but little heed to that , although the marquis was young , handsome , rich , and high in the cardinal ’ s favor .
I have devoted myself to industry ; I study the useful arts .
The dog performed three evolutions around the circle and laid himself , with the deepest respect , at the feet of Monsieur de Chavigny , who at first seemed inclined to like the joke and laughed long and loud , but a frown succeeded , and he bit his lips with vexation .
“ Come hither , I say , and don ’ t be afraid , ” continued Athos .
There was connected with the remembrance of this girl a remembrance of anger ; and a desire of vengeance disordered the features of Milady , which , however , immediately recovered the calm and benevolent expression which this woman of a hundred faces had for a moment allowed them to lose .
“ Why , you must see , your excellency , ” cried the steward , “ that this is not natural ; that , having a house to purchase , you purchase it exactly at Auteuil , and that , purchasing it at Auteuil , this house should be No .
You are young and rich—leave Paris—all is soon forgotten in this great Babylon of excitement and changing tastes .
And the queen ? ” “ What queen ? ” “ Madame Henrietta of England , daughter of Henry IV. ” “ She is at the Louvre , as you know. ” “ Yes , and I hear in bitter poverty .
“ Good , ” thought he ; “ Mazarin has been listening to discover whether I betrayed him .
Oh , good Lord !
During the daytime Valentine ’ s perceptions remained tolerably clear , owing to the constant presence of M. Noirtier , who caused himself to be carried to his granddaughter ’ s room , and watched her with his paternal tenderness ; Villefort also , on his return from the law courts , frequently passed an hour or two with his father and child .
“ Ah , Danglars ! ” whispered Caderousse , “ you have deceived me—the trick you spoke of last night has been played ; but I can not suffer a poor old man or an innocent girl to die of grief through your fault .
It was precisely at this moment that M. de Tréville , on leaving the residence of the _lieutenant-criminel_ and the governor of Fort l ’ Evêque without being able to find Athos , arrived at the palace .
The concert must be a delightful one. ” “ They suit each other remarkably well , ” said Danglars .
When the detachment arrived at the Piazza di Venezia , a second volley of fireworks was discharged , to announce that the street was clear .
“ What do you think of the story Chalais ’ s esquire relates ? ” asked another Musketeer , without addressing anyone in particular , but on the contrary speaking to everybody .
Milady remained alone , with her eyes fixed upon the door .
The circumstance irritated instead of calming the general , and he rushed on his adversary .
It is the desire of vengeance , and how desire molds a man !
Acknowledge it , Beauchamp ; your courage can not be doubted. ” “ Not so , ” murmured the journalist ; “ on the contrary—— ” Albert turned frightfully pale ; he endeavored to speak , but the words died on his lips .
“ I have heard speak of a Mazarin who had not much religion when his oaths were in question .
He touched him on the shoulder .
I know nothing. ” “ Can you not understand that Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , being my friend , might take me into his confidence ? ” “ Truly ? ” “ Do you not perceive that I know all—your abduction from the little house at St. Germain , his despair , that of his friends , and their useless inquiries up to this moment ?
And perhaps his saddle , therewith. ” “ No , gentlemen , I have kept the harness , ” said Porthos .
But I was unable to accept your invitation , having promised to accompany my mother to a German concert given by the Baroness of Château-Renaud. ” This was followed by rather an awkward silence .
“ Shall we obey ? ” asked Blaisois .
So that Monsieur watched Bassompierre ; the king , the Duc d ’ Angoulême ; and the cardinal , M. de Schomberg .
What am I ? —the law .
B. , Constance Bonacieux. ” “ Or Camille de Bois-Tracy. ” “ Silence , monsieur !
He was therefore silent ; and as Athos was the least inquisitive of any man on earth , D ’ Artagnan ’ s confidence stopped there .
In all well-organized brains , the predominating idea—and there always is one—is sure to be the last thought before sleeping , and the first upon waking in the morning .
“ And if that were the case it would be worth while to make some sacrifice. ” “ Thank you , no , sir. ” “ Then it will be tomorrow. ” “ Yes ; but without fail. ” “ Ah , you are laughing at me ; send tomorrow at twelve , and the bank shall be notified. ” “ I will come myself. ” “ Better still , since it will afford me the pleasure of seeing you. ” They shook hands .
Haydée is a very uncommon name in France , but is common enough in Albania and Epirus ; it is as if you said , for example , Chastity , Modesty , Innocence , —it is a kind of baptismal name , as you Parisians call it. ” “ Oh , that is charming , ” said Albert , “ how I should like to hear my countrywomen called Mademoiselle Goodness , Mademoiselle Silence , Mademoiselle Christian Charity !
He remained listening and gazing .
“ What are you about ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
The stranger cried that he acknowledged no other king but his Eminence .
“ The leave of absence Monsieur has asked for , ” replied the lackey .
Gentlemen , return your swords to their scabbards. ” “ Well , provided you replace your pistols in your belt. ” “ Willingly. ” And D ’ Artagnan set the example .
On the altar , and beneath the portrait , was the casket containing the diamond studs .
“ Good , ” replied Athos , whose blood mounted to his face at the insult offered to royalty ; “ tell the captain we are coming. ” The Puritan then went out .
“ The writing of Madame de Chevreuse ! ” said Milady to herself .
The Frenchman entered , leaving in the anteroom his guide , who immediately entered into conversation with two or three of the industrious idlers who are always to be found in Rome at the doors of banking-houses , churches , museums , or theatres .
Upon the little she earned she lived as well as she could ; now there were two to be supported , and nothing to live upon .
EXECUTION It was near midnight ; the moon , lessened by its decline , and reddened by the last traces of the storm , arose behind the little town of Armentières , which showed against its pale light the dark outline of its houses , and the skeleton of its high belfry .
These gardeners are the most careless people in the world ; in bringing the horse out to the water they ’ ve allowed him to walk over the border. ” D ’ Artagnan began to smile .
The minister , so feared , so hated by his master , has descended into the tomb , drawing after him the king , whom he would not leave alone on earth , lest his work should be destroyed .
But she waited in vain .
“ Certainly it is empty , ” replied the procurator ’ s wife , in real innocence .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” he cried , falling back a step ; “ it is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan !
That is the least we owe her. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said Athos ; “ but that concerns Aramis. ” “ Well , ” replied the latter , blushing , “ what must I say ? ” “ Oh , that ’ s simple enough ! ” replied Athos .
I wrote verses in the style of Benserade—— ” “ You , my lord ? ” “ Yes , I ; shall I repeat to you some of my verses ? ” “ Just as you please , my lord .
“ I asked , ” said Athos , in the same language , “ if there are two parliaments , a pure and an impure ? ” “ Why , how extraordinary ! ” said Porthos , slowly raising his head and looking at his friends with an air of astonishment , “ I understand English , then !
“ That has cured me of beautiful , poetical , and loving women , ” said Athos , after a considerable pause , raising his head , and forgetting to continue the fiction of the count .
“ How will this end ? ” he said .
“ You seem , sir , ” she remarked , “ to be making me undergo a course of cross-examination. ” “ Which you answer according to your fancy , ” replied Mazarin .
But let us be quick—the king may change his mind in an hour ; and at all events it is more difficult to replace a man in the Fort l ’ Evêque or the Bastille who has got out , than to keep a prisoner there who is in. ” M. de Tréville made his entrance triumphantly into the Fort l ’ Evêque , whence he delivered the Musketeer , whose peaceful indifference had not for a moment abandoned him .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ Ah , that is true , ” said De Guiche ; “ I had forgotten it. ” “ That is easily understood ; it was you who took him , count , ” said Raoul , smiling .
“ If you see him coming on one side of the street , pass by on the other .
His Eminence entered the chamber which served him as a study , and made a sign to Rochefort to bring in the young Musketeer .
No , I do not dance , but I like to see others do so .
Besides , the end justified the means , as you Frenchmen say , does it not ? ” “ Yes , my Lord , I accept them , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and if it please God , we will make a good use of your presents. ” “ Well , now , your hand , young man .
The first arrivals wore long cloaks , in whose drapery they were carefully enveloped ; one of them , shorter than the rest , remained pertinaciously in the background .
Anne of Austria looked with a sort of terror at the threatening aspect of the cardinal—his physiognomy in such moments was not destitute of a certain grandeur .
He assembled his keepers , and notwithstanding his well-known difficulty of utterance , addressed them as follows : “ Gentlemen !
Supposing this person , wearied at the inefficacy of the poison , should , as Monte Cristo intimated , have recourse to steel ! —What if the count should have no time to run to her rescue ! —What if her last moments were approaching , and she should never again see Morrel !
“ And I , ” he said , “ I feel that my place is not in the judge ’ s seat , but on the prisoner ’ s bench. ” 30263m “ You ? ” said Madame Danglars .
But I shall have a priest of vulgar mind , whose career and fortune I have ruined by my misfortune .
“ That _is_ difficult , ” replied Athos .
Memory makes the one , philosophy the other. ” “ But can not one learn philosophy ? ” “ Philosophy can not be taught ; it is the application of the sciences to truth ; it is like the golden cloud in which the Messiah went up into heaven. ” “ Well , then , ” said Dantès , “ What shall you teach me first ?
Ho , there , Champenois !
“ Yes , ” said he , “ I came quickly ; I wanted to speak to you. ” “ Are all your family well ? ” asked the count , with an affectionate benevolence , whose sincerity no one could for a moment doubt .
He spoke Italian like a Tuscan , and Spanish like a Castilian ; he would have been free , and happy with Mercédès and his father , whereas he was now confined in the Château d ’ If , that impregnable fortress , ignorant of the future destiny of his father and Mercédès ; and all this because he had trusted to Villefort ’ s promise .
This brother was my only friend ; we became orphans—I at five , he at eighteen .
D ’ Artagnan went successively into all the cabarets in which there was a light , but could not find Planchet in any of them .
Mousqueton will lose another , that ’ s five ; and in five minutes we shall have galloped a quarter of a league. ” Aramis swallowed a hasty mouthful , gulped a glass of wine and changed his clothes .
He has put out the lamp , I can see nothing now. ” “ Get down then and quickly. ” Grimaud leaped down .
Although M. de Villefort flattered himself that , to all outward view , he had completely masked the feelings which were passing in his mind , he did not know that the cloud was still lowering on his brow , so much so that the count , whose smile was radiant , immediately noticed his sombre and thoughtful air .
“ Come , D ’ Artagnan , don ’ t let us play a sidelong game ; your hesitation , your evasion , tells me at once on whose side you are ; for that party no one dares openly to recruit , and when people recruit for it , it is with averted eyes and humble voice. ” “ Ah !
I dare not say more in a letter .
Then she quitted him she had ruined for him she was destined to ruin , and became the Comtesse de la Fère— ” All eyes were turned towards Athos , whose real name that was , and who made a sign with his head that all was true which the executioner had said .
It was one of those perfumed gloves that lovers like to snatch from a pretty hand .
I received this morning five millions which I paid away ; almost directly afterwards another demand for the same sum was presented to me ; I put this creditor off till tomorrow and I intend leaving today , to escape that tomorrow , which would be rather too unpleasant for me to endure .
‘ You can not go wrong—the road is bordered by trees on both sides. ’ “ ‘ Good—all right , ’ said a voice almost lost in the distance .
Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™ Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including obsolete , old , middle-aged and new computers .
And Aramis ? ” “ I have seen him also , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but he seemed to me cold. ” “ Ah , you have seen Aramis ? ” said Athos , turning on D ’ Artagnan a searching look .
You are placed on high , my Lord , but tremble !
Presently the army came in sight of Lens ; two or three houses were in flames and a dull noise was heard which indicated what suffering was endured by a town taken by assault .
Has Lamoricière , that Ney of the South , been killed ?
One evening he cast off the painter of a sailboat from the iron ring that secured it to the dock at Leghorn , wrapped himself in his coat and lay down , and said to the crew , — “ To the Island of Elba ! ” The boat shot out of the harbor like a bird and the next morning Franz disembarked at Porto-Ferrajo .
At six in the evening the guests began to come .
“ You have guessed it , ” answered Aramis ; and they all laughed so heartily that the host appeared in order to inquire whether the gentlemen wanted anything ; he thought they were fighting .
D ’ Artagnan took up his camp tin cup , filled it with wine and arose .
“ An old gentleman , ” continued the concierge , “ a staunch follower of the Bourbons ; he had an only daughter , who married M. de Villefort , who had been the king ’ s attorney at Nîmes , and afterwards at Versailles. ” Monte Cristo glanced at Bertuccio , who became whiter than the wall against which he leaned to prevent himself from falling .
“ If you can guess the position of the island in the darkness , you will see that the fire can not be seen from the side or from Pianosa , but only from the sea. ” “ You think , then , this fire indicates the presence of unpleasant neighbors ? ” “ That is what we must find out , ” returned Gaetano , fixing his eyes on this terrestrial star .
Soldiers are big children ; but as I maintain that the orders of the king , and more particularly the orders of the cardinal , should be executed— ” D ’ Artagnan could not restrain a smile .
oh !
As they returned toward the castle , D ’ Artagnan thought of the miseries of poor human nature , always dissatisfied with what it has , ever desirous of what it has not .
The entire chamber was lined with crimson brocade , worked with flowers of gold .
In truth , the lieutenant ’ s horse stumbled and fell on his knees ; then a rattling in his throat was heard and he lay down to die .
The headsman out of the way , the sentence could not be executed .
Besides , although you suffer much , you do not seem to be in such agony as you were before. ” “ Do not mistake !
Every kind of revenge was practiced upon the duke by the governor in return for the insults of the innocent Pistache .
The wounds that I make are better than that—witness the executioner of Bethune , my uncle and King Charles .
“ False !
“ I never believe in anything I have not seen , and as I never have seen apparitions , I don ’ t believe in them. ” “ The Bible , ” said Aramis , “ makes our belief in them a law ; the ghost of Samuel appeared to Saul , and it is an article of faith that I should be very sorry to see any doubt thrown upon , Porthos. ” “ At all events , man or devil , body or shadow , illusion or reality , this man is born for my damnation ; for his flight has caused us to miss a glorious affair , gentlemen—an affair by which there were a hundred pistoles , and perhaps more , to be gained. ” “ How is that ? ” cried Porthos and Aramis in a breath .
‘ At nine o ’ clock tomorrow Rita ’ s father will be here with the money. ’ “ ‘ It is well ; in the meantime , we will have a merry night ; this young girl is charming , and does credit to your taste .
“ What are you doing ? ” asked he .
“ Who ? ” asked his Eminence .
“ Yes !
He aspires to the hand of the proud Eugénie. ” “ What does that signify , so long as they favor your suit ? ” “ But it is not the case , my dear count : on the contrary .
Poverty was repugnant to her ; degradation took away two-thirds of her greatness .
I always had a desire to have a mute in my service , so learning the day his tongue was cut out , I went to the Bey , and proposed to give him for Ali a splendid double-barreled gun , which I knew he was very desirous of having .
Meanwhile , to his great regret , as he said , he was obliged to keep his bed .
“ Well , ” said he , “ do you still doubt ? ” “ Oh , ” murmured the young girl .
“ Go , ” he said : “ go , my child. ” Edward ran out .
What magistrate would find , or even venture to insinuate , anything against this ?
“ Which means that I have just been duped—sixty louis for a horse which by the manner of his gait can do at least five leagues an hour. ” D ’ Artagnan and Athos laughed aloud .
Athos , who had till that time said nothing for fear that D ’ Artagnan , interrupted in his turn , should not have the time necessary , from this moment declared that his name was Athos , and not D ’ Artagnan .
I dare say such a thing might be had. ” “ Very possibly. ” “ And a pair of oxen ? ” “ As easily found as the cart. ” “ Then you see , my good fellow , with a cart and a couple of oxen our business can be managed .
Chapter 36 .
if I had not the hope of peeping with Madame Coquenard into her husband ’ s chest ! ” M. Coquenard , after the luxuries of such a repast , which he called an excess , felt the want of a siesta .
I recognized the presence of this poison in the case of poor Barrois as well as in that of Madame de Saint-Méran .
Your history is quite a romance , and the world , which delights in romances in yellow covers , strangely mistrusts those which are bound in living parchment , even though they be gilded like yourself .
How ?
He hurt my shoulder .
She could read to the depths of the heart of this young man ; the death of Buckingham was written there at full length .
Since the moment he had first received these two mementoes Athos had never parted with them .
my poor friend ! ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ not having seen you for four or five years I concluded you were dead. ” “ I ’ faith , ” said Rochefort , “ there ’ s no great difference , I think , between a dead man and one who has been buried alive ; now I have been buried alive , or very nearly so. ” “ And for what crime are you imprisoned in the Bastile. ” “ Do you wish me to speak the truth ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , then , I don ’ t know. ” “ Have you any suspicion of me , Rochefort ? ” “ No !
“ Well , then , ” said Mordaunt , “ I choose for my adversary the man who , not thinking himself worthy to be called Comte de la Fere , calls himself Athos. ” Athos sprang up , but after an instant of motionless silence he said , to the astonishment of his friends , “ Monsieur Mordaunt , a duel between us is impossible .
She raised the hand extended towards her to her lips , and kissed it with a mixture of love and respect .
“ False ! ” he muttered .
He thought of Aramis , who , without possessing any greater advantages than himself , had formerly been the lover of Madame de Chevreuse , who had been to a former court what Madame de Longueville was in that day ; and he wondered how it was that there should be in the world people who succeed in every wish , some in ambition , others in love , whilst others , either from chance , or from ill-luck , or from some natural defect or impediment , remain half-way upon the road toward fulfilment of their hopes and expectations .
The heart of D ’ Artagnan swam in delirium ; he marched between Athos and Porthos , pressing them tenderly .
“ It is strange , ” said Aramis .
“ No , Kitty , you are mistaken .
We owe nothing to our enemies ; and let me give you a piece of advice ; take care of yourself , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , for from the moment I withdraw my hand from behind you , I would not give an _obolus_ for your life. ” “ I will try to do so , monseigneur , ” replied the Gascon , with a noble confidence .
It was , however , necessary to affect weakness and pain—not a very difficult task for so finished an actress as Milady .
Milady was then able to judge of the effect she had produced .
“ What !
Curiosity prevailed over prudence ; and profiting by the preoccupation into which the sight of the handkerchief appeared to have plunged the two personages now on the scene , he stole from his hiding place , and quick as lightning , but stepping with utmost caution , he ran and placed himself close to the angle of the wall , from which his eye could pierce the interior of Aramis ’ s room .
“ For Peppino ! ” cried Andrea , who seemed roused from the torpor in which he had been plunged .
He could not refrain from a smile of visible satisfaction ; but this smile soon disappeared , and returning to the adventure of Meung , “ Tell me , ” continued he , “ had not this gentlemen a slight scar on his cheek ? ” “ Yes , such a one as would be made by the grazing of a ball. ” “ Was he not a fine-looking man ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Of lofty stature. ” “ Yes. ” “ Of pale complexion and brown hair ? ” “ Yes , yes , that is he ; how is it , sir , that you are acquainted with this man ?
Besides , of what importance to you is the life or death of a condemned wretch ?
After supper , when they are perfected , I will communicate my plans to you. ” So Porthos sat down to table without another word and ate with an appetite that did honor to the confidence that was ever inspired in him by D ’ Artagnan ’ s inventive imagination .
Now we discover our error ; a title and promotion attach you to the government we wish to overturn .
“ You say , then , ” he continued , “ that the Count de Rochefort spoke of me to the cardinal ? ” “ Yes , and the queen , too. ” “ The queen , do you say ? ” “ To inspire us with confidence she has even placed in Mazarin ’ s hands that famous diamond—you remember all about it—that I once sold to Monsieur des Essarts and of which , I don ’ t know how , she has regained possession. ” “ But it seems to me , ” said Porthos , “ that she would have done much better if she had given it back to you. ” “ So I think , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ but kings and queens are strange beings and have odd fancies ; nevertheless , since they are the ones who have riches and honors , we are devoted to them. ” “ Yes , we are devoted to them , ” repeated Porthos ; “ and you—to whom are you devoted now ? ” “ To the king , the queen , and to the cardinal ; moreover , I have answered for your devotion also. ” “ And you say that you have made certain conditions on my behalf ? ” “ Magnificent , my dear fellow , magnificent !
D ’ Artagnan , Porthos and Aramis rose and in one spontaneous motion rushed to their swords .
“ Adieu , ” faltered the count , who felt his heart die away within him ; “ adieu , and think of me. ” “ Oh !
Haydée Chapter 50 .
You have been in my service a year , your fund has already begun to accumulate—let it continue to do so. ” This address , delivered in the presence of Ali , who , not understanding one word of the language in which it was spoken , stood wholly unmoved , produced an effect on M. Baptistin only to be conceived by such as have occasion to study the character and disposition of French domestics .
But pride restrained him and he did not utter it .
Bonacieux kissed the hands of the queen , concealed the paper in the bosom of her dress , and disappeared with the lightness of a bird .
“ You are discreet—so much the better .
Aramis muttered to himself , “ We shall hear nothing but the usual commonplace things. ” Porthos sucked his mustache , muttering , “ A good deal of ceremony to-night about crushing an adder. ” Athos shrunk into his corner , pale and motionless as a bas-relief .
The lady with the red cushion produced a great effect—for she was very handsome—upon the lady with the black hood , who saw in her a rival really to be dreaded ; a great effect upon Porthos , who thought her much prettier than the lady with the black hood ; a great effect upon D ’ Artagnan , who recognized in her the lady of Meung , of Calais , and of Dover , whom his persecutor , the man with the scar , had saluted by the name of Milady .
I had a bad opinion of him the moment I saw his wound , and since he asked for a monk you know that it was his opinion , too , that death would follow. ” At the mention of the monk , Grimaud became pale .
Nevertheless , you ought to remember that that great , that sublime monarch , when proscribed at one time , as my husband may be , demanded aid from England and England accorded it to him ; and it is but just to say that Queen Elizabeth was not his niece. ” “ Peccato ! ” said Mazarin , writhing beneath this simple eloquence , “ your majesty does not understand me ; you judge my intentions wrongly , and that is partly because , doubtless , I explain myself in French. ” “ Speak Italian , sir .
30221m “ Is it not so ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
He got in it , and thoroughly wearied by so many emotions , arrived about midnight in the Rue Meslay , threw himself on his bed and slept soundly .
Athos , who still suffered grievously from his wound , though it had been dressed anew by M. de Tréville ’ s surgeon , was seated on a post and waiting for his adversary with hat in hand , his feather even touching the ground .
At this moment a door concealed in the tapestry opened , and a woman appeared .
Between the court and the garden , built in the heavy style of the imperial architecture , was the large and fashionable dwelling of the Count and Countess of Morcerf .
The first row , seeing their sergeant stop , stopped in their turn , and so on to the very last .
He had entered the service of Porthos upon condition that he should only be clothed and lodged , though in a handsome manner ; but he claimed two hours a day to himself , consecrated to an employment which would provide for his other wants .
The king came out first from his room .
“ A friend , Maximilian ; and who is this friend ?
At seven o ’ clock in the evening all was ready , and at ten minutes past seven they doubled the lighthouse just as the beacon was kindled .
At the sixth he began to reflect that the search was rather dubious .
What for ? ” “ He was found in your lodging ; they took him for you. ” “ And by whom was he arrested ? ” “ By Guards brought by the men in black whom you put to flight. ” “ Why did he not tell them his name ?
“ You were writing ? ” said Monte Cristo with a searching look .
Your position as secretary to the minister renders your authority great on the subject of political news ; you never open your mouth but the stockbrokers immediately stenograph your words .
After having touched , felt , examined these treasures , Edmond rushed through the caverns like a man seized with frenzy ; he leaped on a rock , from whence he could behold the sea .
Once arrived at the brink of the river , should we even find them three ranks deep , as long as you and your regiment do your duty , we will look to the rest. ” “ To horse ! ” said Lord Winter .
He guessed , likewise , by induction , that Porthos was taking his revenge for the defeat of Chantilly , when the procurator ’ s wife had proved so refractory with respect to her purse .
“ Oh , sir , in the most natural way possible , ” replied he to whom they had given the title of count .
“ I can pass. ” “ That is true , ” said Mousqueton , glancing at his friend ’ s long and thin body , “ you will pass easily. ” “ And he knows the full casks , ” said Blaisois , “ for he has already been in the hold with Monsieur le Chevalier d ’ Artagnan .
“ This humble picture would have but little interest for you , accustomed as you are to behold the pleasures and the misfortunes of the wealthy and industrious ; but such as we are , we have experienced bitter sorrows. ” “ And God has poured balm into your wounds , as he does into those of all who are in affliction ? ” said Monte Cristo inquiringly .
“ Well , I understand what I now have to do , ” replied Villefort .
“ No , indeed , sir , ” answered Raoul .
All those fighting citizens went out to battle and they have been massacred. ” It was , then , with a sentiment of uneasiness whether Planchet , who alone could give them information , was alive or dead , that the friends returned to the Place Royale ; to their great surprise they found the citizens still encamped there , drinking and bantering each other , although , doubtless , mourned by their families , who thought they were at Charenton in the thickest of the fighting .
It was the governor , who , hearing of Faria ’ s illness from the jailer , had come in person to see him .
Who will support them ? ” A shudder ran through the young man ’ s frame .
“ Yes , ” he said , “ yes , doubtless it is painful , if you violently break the outer covering which obstinately begs for life .
Submit this honour to somebody else. ” And he sat down .
Their number was great .
This key was furnished with a small iron point , —a negligence on the part of the locksmith .
Anyone who had seen her sleeping might have said she was a young girl dreaming of the crown of flowers she was to wear on her brow at the next festival .
M. Franz is not expected to return home for a year to come , I am told ; in that time many favorable and unforeseen chances may befriend us .
“ Well , then , Marie Michon had supper with her follower , and then , in accordance with the permission given her , she entered the chamber of her host , Kitty meanwhile taking possession of an armchair in the room first entered , where they had taken their supper. ” “ Really , monsieur , ” said Madame de Chevreuse , “ unless you are the devil in person I don ’ t know how you could become acquainted with all these details. ” “ A charming woman was that Marie Michon , ” resumed Athos , “ one of those wild creatures who are constantly conceiving the strangest ideas .
They had not shown sufficient pertinacity in their inquiries .
Still I was but an agent , led on by an invisible and offended Deity , who chose not to withhold the fatal blow that I was destined to hurl .
The age of this singular man , who is of no age , is then , I am certain , thirty-five .
“ ‘ Here , ’ said he , to Cucumetto , ‘ here are three hundred piastres ; give me back my child .
Close to the hedge the steps stopped .
“ Friend Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , handing the letter to him , “ this time , at least , you are sure of your title of baron , and I of my captaincy .
The Scotch camp seemed as if at last awakened ; the soldiers had come out of their tents and taken up their station in battle array .
You know I have made the most of my arms , though I never forgot my origin. ” “ A proof of great humility or great pride , ” said Monte Cristo .
The Gratitude of Anne of Austria .
He leaped from his charger , placed his back against the shaft of the carriage , making a rampart of his horse , drew his pistols from their holsters and fastened them to his belt , and began to fight with the back sword , like a man accustomed to the handling of his weapon .
The Musketeer met with a superb Andalusian horse , black as jet , nostrils of fire , legs clean and elegant , rising six years .
She prevailed upon him to leave the country ; but to leave the country , to fly together , to reach another part of France , where they might live at ease because unknown , money was necessary .
In the meantime the fugitives had returned to the first room , where they took counsel together .
D ’ Artagnan resolved to try and enter the Louvre .
Here at least , ” said Athos , pointing to the bastion , “ they will not come and disturb us. ” “ It appears to me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with that prudence which allied itself in him so naturally with excessive bravery , “ that we could have found some retired place on the downs or the seashore. ” “ Where we should have been seen all four conferring together , so that at the end of a quarter of an hour the cardinal would have been informed by his spies that we were holding a council. ” “ Yes , ” said Aramis , “ Athos is right : _Animadvertuntur in desertis_. ” “ A desert would not have been amiss , ” said Porthos ; “ but it behooved us to find it. ” “ There is no desert where a bird can not pass over one ’ s head , where a fish can not leap out of the water , where a rabbit can not come out of its burrow , and I believe that bird , fish , and rabbit each becomes a spy of the cardinal .
“ This day will be a warm one , ” said Planchet , in a warlike tone .
“ Are you armed ? ” he asked .
Do you think so ?
The Marechal de la Meilleraie was caught between two fires , but he was brave and made up his mind to die where he was .
To the boats , my lads , as quick as you can. ’ Now , ” continued Penelon , “ you see , M. Morrel , a sailor is attached to his ship , but still more to his life , so we did not wait to be told twice ; the more so , that the ship was sinking under us , and seemed to say , ‘ Get along—save yourselves. ’ We soon launched the boat , and all eight of us got into it .
The king , half dressed , the queen and Laporte remained each in the same state and almost in the same place , where they were listening and waiting .
However , the two culprits advanced , and as they approached their faces became visible .
“ True enough ; he wanted to kill me ! ” returned the turnkey .
“ Ah heavens , if it were that !
You would have been summoned to the gate ; you would have believed yourself about to meet friends ; you would have been abducted , and conducted back to Paris. ” “ Oh , my God !
“ Monsieur , ” said Mousqueton , who , abandoning his horse on the high road , had come on foot to rejoin his master , “ Phoebus could no longer hold out and—— ” “ Silence ! ” said Porthos .
You think me rather parsimonious , don ’ t you ?
“ Well , ” said he in a voice perfectly calm , and no muscle of his countenance disturbed , “ well , my dear Vampa , it appears to me that you receive a friend with a great deal of ceremony. ” 20207m “ Ground arms , ” exclaimed the chief , with an imperative sign of the hand , while with the other he took off his hat respectfully ; then , turning to the singular personage who had caused this scene , he said , “ Your pardon , your excellency , but I was so far from expecting the honor of a visit , that I did not really recognize you. ” “ It seems that your memory is equally short in everything , Vampa , ” said the count , “ and that not only do you forget people ’ s faces , but also the conditions you make with them. ” “ What conditions have I forgotten , your excellency ? ” inquired the bandit , with the air of a man who , having committed an error , is anxious to repair it .
The calash contained Mademoiselle Danglars and Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly .
There is now a truce and a conference .
“ Yes , indeed , the marks are recent. ” “ Quite so , ” replied the lieutenant .
This answer , and especially the tone in which it was uttered , chilled the heart of poor Morrel .
You must know all your officers—I mean those more distinguished. ” “ Why , yes , very nearly. ” “ Will you then kindly tell me if you have in your command the Chevalier d ’ Artagnan , lieutenant in the musketeers ? ” “ No , sir , he is not with us ; he left Paris more than six weeks ago and is believed to have gone on a mission to England. ” “ I knew that , but I supposed he had returned. ” “ No , sir ; no one has seen him .
“ Let us first see , ” said he , “ whether it is possible to remove the traces of my entrance here—our future tranquillity depends upon our jailers being entirely ignorant of it. ” Advancing to the opening , he stooped and raised the stone easily in spite of its weight ; then , fitting it into its place , he said : “ You removed this stone very carelessly ; but I suppose you had no tools to aid you. ” “ Why , ” exclaimed Dantès , with astonishment , “ do you possess any ? ” “ I made myself some ; and with the exception of a file , I have all that are necessary , —a chisel , pincers , and lever. ” 0201m “ Oh , how I should like to see these products of your industry and patience. ” “ Well , in the first place , here is my chisel. ” So saying , he displayed a sharp strong blade , with a handle made of beechwood .
The anticipated delights of the Carnival had so run in his head as to make him leave his pillow long before his usual hour .
Besides , each individual had one or two others for whom he was interested ; and as there could be no doubt but that the queen was leaving Paris full of terrible projects of vengeance , every one had warned parents and friends of what was about to transpire ; so that the news of the approaching exit ran like a train of lighted gunpowder along the streets .
It was there a lodging was prepared for them .
“ Ah !
“ This lady is infamous. ” “ My Lord , Milady de Winter is an angel ; you know that she is , and I demand her liberty of you. ” “ Bah !
And have not all these Fernands , united , made Lieutenant-General , the Count of Morcerf , peer of France ? ” “ Oh , ” cried the general , as if branded with a hot iron , “ wretch , —to reproach me with my shame when about , perhaps , to kill me !
one would think one was in the cave of Ali Baba .
Besides , the Parisian world is entirely unknown to me , for , as I believe I told you , I have been in Paris but very few days .
“ With whom are you going to fight ? ” “ With Beauchamp. ” “ One of your friends ! ” “ Of course ; it is always with friends that one fights. ” “ I suppose you have some cause of quarrel ? ” “ I have. ” 40094m “ What has he done to you ? ” “ There appeared in his journal last night—but wait , and read for yourself. ” And Albert handed over the paper to the count , who read as follows : “ A correspondent at Yanina informs us of a fact of which until now we had remained in ignorance .
She sat down , took Edward on her knees , and from time to time pressed this child , on whom her affections appeared centred , almost convulsively to her bosom .
Who among the persons here assembled answers to the name of Edmond Dantès ? ” Every eye was turned towards the young man who , spite of the agitation he could not but feel , advanced with dignity , and said , in a firm voice : “ I am he ; what is your pleasure with me ? ” “ Edmond Dantès , ” replied the magistrate , “ I arrest you in the name of the law ! ” “ Me ! ” repeated Edmond , slightly changing color , “ and wherefore , I pray ? ” “ I can not inform you , but you will be duly acquainted with the reasons that have rendered such a step necessary at the preliminary examination. ” M. Morrel felt that further resistance or remonstrance was useless .
The Project Gutenberg eBook of Twenty Years After This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
He approached the duke , took his hand , held it for an instant in his own , and letting it fall , “ All is useless , ” said he , “ he is dead. ” “ Dead , dead ! ” cried Patrick .
Yes , we are young ; yes , we shall yet have happy days !
The ‘ Baroness Porthos ’ will sound particularly charming. ” And the two friends began to laugh .
“ Hang it ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ another twenty pistoles lost .
He was rather above the middle height , with thin reddish whiskers , light complexion and light hair , turning rather gray .
“ There ’ s nothing to do in Paris now there ’ s no Fronde .
“ He will say , in that case , to the king that I am determined on war , and that this measure is my first act of hostility against France. ” The secretary bowed and retired .
But your release can be managed .
In one of these risings , the Duc de Beaufort pillaged the house and library of Mazarin , in order to give the populace , as he put it , something to gnaw at .
Athos alone remained unmoved , as if no danger hovered over him , and as if he breathed his customary atmosphere .
It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .
He is moving ; and if he has taken off his mask I shall be able to see .
I thought the assassin , having discovered the chest , and supposing it to be a treasure , had intended carrying it off , but , perceiving his error , had dug another hole , and deposited it there ; but I could find nothing .
“ All right ! ” said Caderousse .
With the eagle glance of a sailor he had recognized there , where another would have seen only a gull hovering over the waves , the sail of a sloop which was directed toward the coast of France .
“ Bertuccio ! ” The steward appeared at the door .
I ventured to tell her that Mazarin was the lover of Anne of Austria .
The king threw himself into an arm-chair .
They might be said to be a procession of ghosts , for they were all wrapped in white cloaks .
Monte Cristo advanced a few steps , which were heard on the gravel .
You are disputing which shall fight me first , but you do not consult me who am most concerned in the matter .
Monte Cristo remained as unmoved as if the reproach had not been addressed to him .
Say the devil ! ” “ My dear friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ if you annoy us in this manner we will all four go and shut ourselves up in your cellar , and we will see if the mischief is as great as you say. ” “ Oh , gentlemen , ” said the host , “ I have been wrong .
Splendid paintings by the first masters were ranged against the walls , intermingled with magnificent trophies of war , while heavy curtains of costly tapestry were suspended before the different doors of the room .
Franz was less enthusiastic ; but the count exercised over him also the ascendency a strong mind always acquires over a mind less domineering .
After a moment ’ s silence , the lady inquired : “ Do you know , my dear count , ” she said , “ that you are a very terrible reasoner , and that you look at the world through a somewhat distempered medium ?
Doubtless he was accustomed to such reproaches , for he listened to me calm and smiling , with his arms crossed over his breast .
“ Whom ? ” “ This D ’ Artagnan. ” “ Perfectly well. ” “ Describe him to me , then. ” “ Nothing more easy. ” And D ’ Artagnan gave , feature for feature , a description of the Comte de Wardes .
You will find your horses in bad condition , from the results of this accident ; they seem thoroughly stupefied , as if sulky and vexed at having been conquered by man .
Now my work is accomplished , my mission is terminated , now thou canst neither afford me pain nor pleasure .
See paragraph 1.E below .
Our breakfast is a philanthropic one , and we shall have at table—at least , I hope so—two benefactors of humanity. ” “ What shall we do ? ” said Debray ; “ we have only one Monthyon prize. ” “ Well , it will be given to someone who has done nothing to deserve it , ” said Beauchamp ; “ that is the way the Academy mostly escapes from the dilemma. ” “ And where does he come from ? ” asked Debray .
“ Yes , your majesty , there is a title which I covet much , ” replied Scarron .
“ I wish to consult you on this passage , ‘ _Molli fugiens anhelitu_ , ’ you know it refers to a stag flying from a wolf .
Ah , my young friend , ” added the curate , groaning , “ do not regret the devil , I implore you ! ” D ’ Artagnan felt himself bewildered .
“ Behold Nebuchadnezzar ! ” exclaimed an old Puritan soldier , whose eyes flashed at the sight of the man they called the tyrant .
“ A gallant knight can not decline a rendezvous with a lady ; but a prudent gentleman may excuse himself from not waiting on his Eminence , particularly when he has reason to believe he is not invited to make his compliments. ” “ I am of Aramis ’ s opinion , ” said Porthos .
The carriage drove round , and stopped at the steps , followed by the horsemen .
“ Go , sir , then , ” said the queen ; “ you have obtained what you wish and we know all we desire to know. ” Scarcely , however , had the tapestry closed behind Athos when she said to Mazarin : “ Cardinal , desire them to arrest that insolent fellow before he leaves the court. ” “ Your majesty , ” answered Mazarin , “ desires me to do only what I was going to ask you to let me do .
“ Then he is not dead ? ” 30213m “ No ; you see plainly he is not dead .
What I hate to-day I adore to-morrow , and vice versa .
Valentine looked at M. d ’ Avrigny with astonishment , kissed her grandfather on the forehead , and left the room .
“ _ ‘ Se alle sei della mattina le quattro mille piastre non sono nelle mie mani , alla sette il conte Alberto avrà cessato di vivere .
Andrea assumed his gayest manner .
“ Bah !
I am king of all creation .
Then the soldier , gagged and bound , was placed upon the hearth , the fire of which had been previously extinguished by the two friends .
“ I was going to say that I received a letter almost to the same effect. ” “ You ? ” “ Yes. ” “ From the Abbé Busoni ? ” “ No. ” “ From whom , then ? ” “ From an Englishman , called Lord Wilmore , who takes the name of Sinbad the Sailor. ” “ And of whom you have no more knowledge than I of the Abbé Busoni ? ” “ You are mistaken ; there I am ahead of you. ” “ You have seen him , then ? ” “ Yes , once. ” “ Where ? ” “ Ah , that is just what I can not tell you ; if I did , I should make you as wise as myself , which it is not my intention to do. ” “ And what did the letter contain ? ” “ Read it. ” “ ‘ You are poor , and your future prospects are dark and gloomy .
“ I like to hear you speak thus , and I augur well for Edmond from it. ” “ Wait a moment , ” said Villefort , turning over the leaves of a register ; “ I have it—a sailor , who was about to marry a young Catalan girl .
Add another day for landing , and that would make four .
The city carpenters had erected scaffolds upon which the invited ladies were to be placed ; the city grocer had ornamented the chambers with two hundred _flambeaux_ of white wax , a piece of luxury unheard of at that period ; and twenty violins were ordered , and the price for them fixed at double the usual rate , upon condition , said the report , that they should be played all night .
port wine !
“ Egad ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ it ’ s quite clear that the king and his escort have been by here. ” “ The devil ! ” said Porthos ; “ in that case they have eaten everything. ” “ Bah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ they will have left a chicken , at least. ” He dismounted and knocked on the door .
He is master of his arm , yet he strikes without remorse. ” “ The executioner ! ” muttered Athos , as if arrested by some recollection .
“ Go there ? ” murmured Julie .
Valentine hid her head between her hands .
Never had Anne of Austria appeared to him so beautiful , amid balls , fêtes , or carousals , as she appeared to him at this moment , dressed in a simple robe of white satin , and accompanied by Donna Estafania—the only one of her Spanish women who had not been driven from her by the jealousy of the king or by the persecutions of Richelieu .
Then the general advanced , and making a violent effort to control his feelings , — “ I have a son , ” said he , “ and I ought to think of him , finding myself among assassins. ” “ ‘ “ General , ” said the chief of the assembly , “ one man may insult fifty—it is the privilege of weakness .
My friend here , Monsieur du Vallon , shares my gratitude , for he was particularly hungry. ” “ And I am so still , ” said Porthos bowing to Harrison .
“ My dear Planchet , I am the happiest of men ! ” “ And I may profit by Monsieur ’ s happiness , and go to bed ? ” “ Yes , go. ” “ May the blessings of heaven fall upon Monsieur !
Besides , his probity was irreproachable , in an age in which soldiers compromised so easily with their religion and their consciences , lovers with the rigorous delicacy of our era , and the poor with God ’ s Seventh Commandment .
“ But is it the custom for the officers in the English navy to place themselves at the service of their female compatriots when they land in a port of Great Britain , and carry their gallantry so far as to conduct them ashore ? ” “ Yes , madame , it is the custom , not from gallantry but prudence , that in time of war foreigners should be conducted to particular hôtels , in order that they may remain under the eye of the government until full information can be obtained about them. ” These words were pronounced with the most exact politeness and the most perfect calmness .
Pale , motionless , overwhelmed by this frightful revelation , dazzled by the superhuman beauty of this woman who unveiled herself before him with an immodesty which appeared to him sublime , he ended by falling on his knees before her as the early Christians did before those pure and holy martyrs whom the persecution of the emperors gave up in the circus to the sanguinary sensuality of the populace .
enough !
Anne followed him with her eyes , and as he withdrew , at every step he took , a disdainful smile was seen playing , then gradually burst upon her lips .
Then he added with a certain uneasiness , “ Did you meet them ? ” “ Why , yes , I think so—in the street , ” said Athos ; and he looked smilingly at Aramis , who looked at him with an expression of surprise .
We can therefore use up four horses as well as one .
In fact , the evening before , a fever had seized him in the midst of the Parliament , while he was holding his Bed of Justice .
“ Those costumes , ” he said , “ are of more worth than most of those which you will see on the backs of the queen ’ s courtiers ; they are costumes of battle. ” D ’ Artagnan and Porthos obeyed .
The accuracy of the aim had first given him the idea that a special weapon had been employed .
No , I grieve not on my own account , I shall always find a resource ; my books , my pencils , my piano , all the things which cost but little , and which I shall be able to procure , will remain my own .
Caderousse quickly performed the stranger ’ s bidding ; and after pouring some into a glass , and slowly swallowing its contents , the abbé , resuming his usual placidity of manner , said , as he placed his empty glass on the table : “ Where did we leave off ? ” “ The name of Edmond ’ s betrothed was Mercédès. ” “ To be sure .
“ Well , ” said Aramis , when they were alone , “ what do you think of this business , my dear count ? ” “ Bad , ” replied Athos , “ very bad. ” “ But you received it with enthusiasm. ” “ As I shall ever receive the defense of a great principle , my dear D ’ Herblay .
The Evening of the Betrothal Chapter 10 .
Let us see the dungeons. ” “ Let us first send for two soldiers , ” said the governor .
We can not say ; but only relate the fact that he shuddered and stepped back suddenly .
Three months afterwards , a woman travelled from Rogliano to Paris to fetch me , and having claimed me as her son , carried me away .
Four of these men were our Musketeers , preparing to listen to a letter one of them had just received .
As long as it was dark they remained silent ; in spite of themselves they submitted to the influence of the obscurity , and apprehended ambushes on every side .
General de Quesnel accepted the condition , and promised on his honor not to seek to discover the road they took .
“ In the first place , I warn you that that letter is for Monsieur de Tréville , and it must be found , or if it is not found , he will know how to find it. ” His threat completed the intimidation of the host .
“ No , he is a countryman of yours , if a Corsican is a countryman of anyone ’ s .
But I still trust you will not esteem me the less for it , and that is my object beyond all others. ” M. de Tréville was surprised to the greatest degree .
Consequently I shall marry my daughter to the Baron Franz d ’ Épinay , because I consider it would be a proper and eligible match for her to make , and , in short , because I choose to bestow my daughter ’ s hand on whomever I please. ” “ What ? ” said the count , the approbation of whose eye Villefort had frequently solicited during this speech .
Andrea ran to the other door , leading to the gallery , ready to rush out ; but he was stopped short , and he stood with his body a little thrown back , pale , and with the useless knife in his clenched hand .
At midnight the sentinel gave the alarm , and in an instant all were on the alert .
Look , ” added he .
“ Stop a bit , ” said the dragoon , placing his saber like a spit upon the two large iron dogs which held the firebrands in the chimney , “ stop a bit , I am in it .
“ How , go then ? ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan .
The warm pressure made D ’ Artagnan tremble , as if by the touch that fever which consumed Milady attacked himself .
“ He is calling you , ” said the count ; “ he to whom you have confided your destiny—he from whom death would have separated you , calls you to him .
“ I confess it , ” replied Albert .
why , there is nothing to prove that the general was murdered .
She ran therefore to Debray , who , after having , like the rest of Paris , witnessed the contract scene and the scandal attending it , had retired in haste to his club , where he was chatting with some friends upon the events which served as a subject of conversation for three-fourths of that city known as the capital of the world .
They then came to a massive door , which after the introduction into the lock of a key which the young man carried with him , turned heavily upon its hinges , and disclosed the chamber destined for Milady .
He questioned him , and as the boy had no interest in deceiving , D ’ Artagnan learned that he exercised , from six o ’ clock in the morning until nine , the office of chorister , and from nine o ’ clock till midnight that of a waiter in the tavern .
“ I do not reject it altogether , ” said Athos ; “ but I wish to remind Aramis that he can not quit the camp , and that nobody but one of ourselves is trustworthy ; that two hours after the messenger has set out , all the Capuchins , all the police , all the black caps of the cardinal , will know your letter by heart , and you and your clever person will be arrested. ” “ Without reckoning , ” objected Porthos , “ that the queen would save Monsieur de Buckingham , but would take no heed of us. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ what Porthos says is full of sense. ” “ Ah , ah !
On the eleventh the queen in going to mass at Notre Dame , as she always did on Saturdays , was followed by more than two hundred women demanding justice .
The lackeys followed .
And instantly , Grimaud , sitting upon the board as if on horseback , commenced his perilous descent .
From being slender he had now become meagre ; once pale , he was now yellow ; his deep-set eyes were hollow , and the gold spectacles shielding his eyes seemed to be an integral portion of his face .
Was it not by chance he caused the earth to be dug up ?
At last the heavy machine , which was called a chariot in those days , came out , rumbling against the gates , and De Winter , still on horseback , bent again to the door to converse with her majesty .
“ That ’ s not fair , ” said the seaman who had saved Dantès ; “ for you know more than we do. ” “ What is that to you , Jacopo ? ” returned the Captain .
Have a table set for us in a corner and send us whatever you like from yours. ” “ Good , ” answered Harrison .
“ It was the fault of their horses , not theirs. ” Another pause .
In spite of herself her thoughts constantly reverted to that handsome young man who was so brave and appeared to be so much in love .
“ That workmanship is divine ! ” he exclaimed .
“ Larboard your helm , ” cried the captain to the steersman .
“ Oh , fear nothing , ” said the skipper , showing his face .
“ Night ! —why , for Heaven ’ s sake , are your eyes like cats ’ , that you can see to work in the dark ? ” “ Indeed they are not ; but God has supplied man with the intelligence that enables him to overcome the limitations of natural conditions .
She has taken care for herself , —at least I hope so , —for her attention has not been diverted from her projects by watching over me .
Remember !
At the moment he was about to go out , Lord de Winter appeared in the corridor , followed by the soldier who had been sent to inform him of the swoon of Milady .
“ But you only asked 100,000 francs for a fowl ! ” “ We have a fixed price for all our provisions .
“ I will expose all. ” “ To whom ? ” “ To M. Danglars. ” “ By Heaven ! ” cried Caderousse , drawing from his waistcoat an open knife , and striking the count in the breast , “ you shall disclose nothing , reverend sir ! ” To Caderousse ’ s great astonishment , the knife , instead of piercing the count ’ s breast , flew back blunted .
Then unfastening the diamond ornament which the queen had sent him , he placed it in the hands of the priest who accompanied Juxon .
She had been engaged in arranging the dresses and linen in a closet when the king entered ; she could not get out and had heard all .
Aramis , not liking to soil his boots with this artificial mortar , apostrophized them rather sharply .
This unexpected circumstance brought back Richelieu ’ s former anxiety , and forced him in spite of himself once more to turn his eyes to the other side of the sea .
“ Thou alone , on the contrary , knowest how to choose thy object and to gain it stealthily. ” The friends embraced .
“ Oh , heavens ! ” continued Olivain , in despair , “ what would the count say if he only saw you now ! ” “ The count would do as I do , ” replied Raoul , urging his horse vigorously forward .
The Office of the King ’ s Attorney Let us leave the banker driving his horses at their fullest speed , and follow Madame Danglars in her morning excursion .
“ Hold , sire , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ they have just told the people that you are asleep ; you see , you still are king. ” The queen looked with surprise at this strange man , whose brilliant courage made him the equal of the bravest , and who was , by his fine and quick intelligence , the equal of the most astute .
Nevertheless , let not your Majesty be uneasy , we will find means. ” “ And I have none , either , ” said the queen .
Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti .
“ And who can that person be who has taken it into his head to wrap himself up in a blue coat embroidered with green ? ” “ Oh , that coat is not his own idea ; it is the Republic ’ s , which deputed David12 to devise a uniform for the Academicians. ” “ Indeed ? ” said Monte Cristo ; “ so this gentleman is an Academician ? ” “ Within the last week he has been made one of the learned assembly. ” “ And what is his especial talent ? ” “ His talent ?
This event had hastened the resolutions of the cardinal ; and till the king and he could take the command of the siege of La Rochelle , which was determined , he had sent Monsieur to direct the first operations , and had ordered all the troops he could dispose of to march toward the theater of war .
He will set out upon receiving an order from me , without knowing what he carries , and he will carry your Majesty ’ s letter , without even knowing it is from your Majesty , to the address which is on it. ” The queen took the two hands of the young woman with a burst of emotion , gazed at her as if to read her very heart , and , seeing nothing but sincerity in her beautiful eyes , embraced her tenderly .
I have seen him ; that is he !
The terrible secret was to be concealed till it burst , like a clap of thunder , over the head of the guilty .
“ We must proceed in an orderly manner. ” “ Hush ! ” said Grimaud , “ he is coming out .
By eight o ’ clock in the morning he was at the apartment of Athos .
“ At what time you please , sir , ” replied Franz .
At this point Grimaud stopped and was preparing to make a hole with his gimlet , when he found a spigot ; he therefore placed his tankard under it and turned the spout ; something , whatever it was the cask contained , fell silently into the tankard .
An instant after , the Guardsman descended in his turn .
But without taking any heed of the sword , Milady endeavored to get near enough to him to stab him , and did not stop till she felt the sharp point at her throat .
I pretended to pour out water from the jug , but I only drank that which I had saved in my glass .
Come , I have a habitation prepared for you in which you will soon forget fatigue and cold. ” Monte Cristo perceived that the young man had turned around ; indeed , Morrel saw with surprise that the men who had brought him had left without being paid , or uttering a word .
At the first word you dared to utter , at the first freedom to which I had to reply , I called for help. ” “ Yes , yes , that is true .
Of all this household , only two persons deserve our notice ; these are Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars and Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly .
“ If it were one of your friends you would hesitate , then ? ” cried Milady ; and a threatening glance darted from her eyes .
Well , the poison brings on a cough , the cough an inflammation of the lungs , or some other complaint catalogued in the book of science , which , however , by no means precludes it from being decidedly mortal ; and if it were not , would be sure to become so , thanks to the remedies applied by foolish doctors , who are generally bad chemists , and which will act in favor of or against the malady , as you please ; and then there is a human being killed according to all the rules of art and skill , and of whom justice learns nothing , as was said by a terrible chemist of my acquaintance , the worthy Abbé Adelmonte of Taormina , in Sicily , who has studied these national phenomena very profoundly. ” “ It is quite frightful , but deeply interesting , ” said the young lady , motionless with attention .
It was the portrait of a young woman of five or six-and-twenty , with a dark complexion , and light and lustrous eyes , veiled beneath long lashes .
He made a great start and looked at me .
I am John Francis de Winter , ” he repeated , “ and that woman—— ” “ Well , that woman ? ” “ Was my mother ! ” The executioner uttered the first cry , that terrible cry which had been first heard .
I wish I had never seen you ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , with that ingenuous roughness which women often prefer to the affectations of politeness , because it betrays the depths of the thought and proves that feeling prevails over reason .
Debray , instead of answering , allowed her to remain in an attitude of nervous inquiry .
Since it is opened , I will take advantage of it to enter your room ; do not disturb yourself—do not disturb yourself ! ” And passing his hand through the broken glass , the count opened the door .
“ I have eight men on guard , you know .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , when he was in his room , “ you do not expect , I presume , to keep me here a long time incognito ? ” “ No , my lord , ” replied the Gascon ; “ on the contrary , we think of announcing very soon that we have you here. ” “ Then you will be besieged. ” “ We expect it. ” “ And what shall you do ? ” “ Defend ourselves .
Everything in the apartment gave evidence of a violent and desperate struggle .
if this man should ever discover the names of the others , my master is lost. ” “ Haste !
From the manner in which you walked and talked together , one would have thought you were two school-girls telling your secrets to each other. ” “ We were having a confidential conversation , ” returned Valentine ; “ she was owning to me her repugnance to the marriage with M. de Morcerf ; and I , on the other hand , was confessing to her how wretched it made me to think of marrying M. d ’ Épinay. ” “ Dear Valentine ! ” “ That will account to you for the unreserved manner which you observed between me and Eugénie , as in speaking of the man whom I could not love , my thoughts involuntarily reverted to him on whom my affections were fixed. ” “ Ah , how good you are to say so , Valentine !
“ I am acquainted with it ; before we left Villeroy I settled the accounts of the regiment. ” “ A false letter altogether , ” said Porthos , “ we have not been disciplined. ” “ D ’ Artagnan , ” said Aramis , in a reproachful tone , “ how could you believe that we had made a disturbance ? ” D ’ Artagnan grew pale , and a convulsive trembling shook all his limbs .
I am sure , my dear Albert , whatever may be your career , you will soon render that name illustrious .
Six days ago , I landed at Portsmouth. ” “ Well ? ” said Felton .
20109m “ It so happened that night that Cucumetto had sent Carlini to a village , so that he had been unable to go to the place of meeting .
Recollect , our only desire is to carry out , in a fitting manner , the last wishes of our friend .
“ No , monsieur le comte , ” answered the servant , “ I think not ; or at least he has not long been so , for he was pacing up and down for more than two hours after he left the king , and the sound of his footsteps has only ceased during the last ten minutes .
Ah , Maximilian , I had hoped you set a higher value on the title of friend. ” “ Your logic is most powerful , Valentine , but say what you will , I can never renounce the sentiment which has instinctively taken possession of my mind .
“ I forgot to mention to you , ” said the count , “ that I lay yearly aside a certain sum for each servant in my establishment ; those whom I am compelled to dismiss lose ( as a matter of course ) all participation in this money , while their portion goes to the fund accumulating for those domestics who remain with me , and among whom it will be divided at my death .
For the assassination itself I had never felt any remorse .
Yes , Borgia has been here , a torch in one hand , a sword in the other , and within twenty paces , at the foot of this rock , perhaps two guards kept watch on land and sea , while their master descended , as I am about to descend , dispelling the darkness before his awe-inspiring progress. ” 0303m “ But what was the fate of the guards who thus possessed his secret ? ” asked Dantès of himself .
For that night , madame , that night you loved me , I will swear it. ” “ My Lord , yes ; it is possible that the influence of the place , the charm of the beautiful evening , the fascination of your look—the thousand circumstances , in short , which sometimes unite to destroy a woman—were grouped around me on that fatal evening ; but , my Lord , you saw the queen come to the aid of the woman who faltered .
An unhappy lapse of fortune and the absence of my protector have cast me down , certainly , but not forever .
This idea completely restored clemency to his heart .
Why did you deceive me ?
The night-lamp threw out countless rays , each resolving itself into some strange form to her disordered imagination , when suddenly by its flickering light Valentine thought she saw the door of her library , which was in the recess by the chimney-piece , open slowly , though she in vain listened for the sound of the hinges on which it turned .
“ What do you say ? ” said Louise .
By a chance , which added yet more to the intensity of the darkness , the moon , which was on the wane , did not rise until eleven o ’ clock , and the streets which the young man traversed were plunged in the deepest obscurity .
They arrived at the drinking room of the Parpaillot .
“ Yes. ” “ And her husband found out that she had a _fleur-de-lis_ on her shoulder ? ” cried Porthos .
The cardinal rose , and advanced in haste to receive the queen of England .
“ It does not signify , gentlemen , ” continued the cardinal , without appearing to be in the least swerved from his first intention by the diversion which Athos had started , “ it does not signify , gentlemen .
He had stanched the wound and the man was better .
It was time , for the jailer was coming .
“ Oh , dear , no , your excellency !
You see it is not my fault. ” And Maximilian was patient , and employed himself in mentally contrasting the two girls , —one fair , with soft languishing eyes , a figure gracefully bending like a weeping willow ; the other a brunette , with a fierce and haughty expression , and as straight as a poplar .
It was the abode of the little Abbé Scarron .
Planchet took the crossroad , and by seven o ’ clock in the morning he was at Armentières .
Valentine instantly ran down .
Athos smiled .
Dantès listened to these melancholy tidings with outward calmness ; but , leaping lightly ashore , he signified his desire to be quite alone .
“ Oh , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I allow of no excuse .
Believe me , to seek a quarrel with a man is a bad method of pleasing the woman who loves that man .
“ No misfortune has happened to the queen ? ” cried Buckingham , the instant he came up , throwing all his fear and love into the question .
Dantès is a good fellow ; I like Dantès .
D ’ Artagnan returned to the Rue Tiquetonne with Porthos , still possessed by the wish to find out who the man was that he had killed .
“ Are you not Mademoiselle Julie Morrel ? ” inquired the man , with a strong Italian accent .
“ I believe these fellows have managed their business .
Be brave , faithful and loyal , ” he said , “ You are brave , faithful and loyal .
“ The French ladies , madame .
The face of the latter became serious when he had cast his eyes upon the paper .
“ I waited patiently , not to overhear what they said , but because I could do nothing else ; besides , the same thing had occurred often before .
“ Good , ” said he ; “ it was time , ” —and he sealed his will with three seals .
He was attired as he had been on the previous evening , and waved his pocket-handkerchief to his guest in token of adieu .
Strange shadows passed over the countenance of the dead man , and at times gave it the appearance of life .
Then the tunnel will be discovered ; the men who cast me into the sea and who must have heard the cry I uttered , will be questioned .
This Andrea was a wretch , a robber , an assassin , and yet his manners showed the effects of a sort of education , if not a complete one ; he had been presented to the world with the appearance of an immense fortune , supported by an honorable name .
Ali returned a sign in the negative .
0073m “ How can I tell you ? ” replied he ; “ I am , like yourself , utterly bewildered at all that is going on , and can not in the least make out what it is about. ” Caderousse then looked around for Fernand , but he had disappeared .
My dear fellow , it is perfectly ridiculous—stupid !
Not a whisper , not a breath , was heard in that vast assembly ; everyone waited anxiously .
In the service of the four friends Grimaud had had so frequent occasion to make lint and bandages that he had become something of a surgeon .
“ Yes , yes ; and now I believe you are right , and that you have really saved my life ; be assured I will return the favor hereafter. ” Villefort shook his head .
“ It is not your fault , my good Ali , ” said the count in the Arabic language , and with a gentleness none would have thought him capable of showing , either in voice or face— “ it is not your fault .
Then he stepped into his _coupé_ , calm and smiling , and was at home in five minutes .
what is he doing ?
“ He is at my house. ” “ Come , come , my friend , ” interrupted the marquise , “ do not neglect your duty to linger with us .
Scarron seemed not to observe that certain of his guests had talked mysteriously , that letters had passed from hand to hand and that the assembly had seemed to have a secret purpose quite apart from the literary discussion carried on with so much ostentation .
There was no longer any deceit or bravado in the manner of the accused .
The moment you leave me , Valentine , I am alone in the world .
if you would but accept my offers !
He will not return till after the taking of the city. ” “ Ah , you fancy so !
The officer leaned forward , looked at her in his turn , and appeared surprised to see that face , just before so beautiful , distorted with passion and almost hideous .
That was all .
The gate of the hotel had been closed to screen them from sight , but they were forced , when the door was open , to pass through a throng of curious glances and whispering voices .
Now , the deliverance of the cardinal would be the ruin of our hopes ; and our hopes are thus far the only recompense we have for labors in comparison with which those of Hercules were pygmean. ” He went to find Aramis .
And as I hear everywhere that at the court they are ill-disposed to him , I wish to warn him , that he may be on his guard. ” Broussel heard the scream of the young oddity , and , enchanted with this excess of zeal , came down to the first floor , for he was , in truth , working in his room on the second .
But his confidence in Grimaud , whose petty persecutions he now perceived were only a blind , increased , and he conceived the highest opinion of his intellect and resolved to trust entirely to his guidance .
It was a sensation in which pleasure and pain were strangely mingled .
I have been here since the morning .
In a few hours they were in the capital .
The glance was of sublime eloquence .
“ What next ?
Shortly a human form appeared in the shade of the corridor , and the young lieutenant , with whom we are already acquainted , stopped at the threshold to receive the orders of the baron .
In a few minutes , Laporte was at the lodge ; in two words D ’ Artagnan informed him where Mme .
A man came to me and showed me an order and I followed him .
“ You were right , sir , ” said Anne .
Pardon me for interrupting you , but it appears to me that that name is familiar to me. ” “ Possibly , monsieur .
You may , perhaps , have hidden a thought ; but not a step , not an action , not a fault , has escaped me , while you flattered yourself upon your address , and firmly believed you had deceived me .
The baroness rose hastily , and was going into the study , when Danglars stopped her .
Besides , we are safe for to-day ; you know the axiom , ‘ Non bis in idem. ’ ” “ Courage , sir , ” said Raoul to the wounded man .
The three friends ordered breakfast , and went into a room in which the host said they would not be disturbed .
He found the wharf too completely deserted , the night too dark , the captain too accommodating .
With him they will be gentle and docile as lambs. ” Ali had , indeed , given proof of this ; for , approaching the animals , who had been got upon their legs with considerable difficulty , he rubbed their foreheads and nostrils with a sponge soaked in aromatic vinegar , and wiped off the sweat and foam that covered their mouths .
Then , in spite of the failure of his first search , he began a second , after having told Gaetano to roast one of the two kids .
And without waiting for her reply he threw himself into the arms of the Helvetian , who received him with great coldness .
“ Well , never mind that , neighbor Caderousse ; it is not worthwhile to contradict me for such a trifle as that .
If while he was being carried out the grave-diggers should discover that they were bearing a live instead of a dead body , Dantès did not intend to give them time to recognize him , but with a sudden cut of the knife , he meant to open the sack from top to bottom , and , profiting by their alarm , escape ; if they tried to catch him , he would use his knife to better purpose .
I depend on you .
D ’ Artagnan , as he crossed the Pont Neuf , congratulated himself on having found Planchet again , for at that time an intelligent servant was essential to him ; nor was he sorry that through Planchet and the situation which he held in Rue des Lombards , a connection with the bourgeoisie might be commenced , at that critical period when that class were preparing to make war with the court party .
Seventeen months ’ captivity to a sailor accustomed to the boundless ocean , is a worse punishment than human crime ever merited .
But when Aramis had presented that peace to her in a true light—that is to say , with all its advantages ; when he had pointed out to her , in exchange for the precarious and contested royalty of Paris , the viceroyalty of Font-de-l ’ Arche , in other words , of all Normandy ; when he had rung in her ears the five hundred thousand francs promised by the cardinal ; when he had dazzled her eyes with the honor bestowed on her by the king in holding her child at the baptismal font , Madame de Longueville contended no longer , except as is the custom with pretty women to contend , and defended herself only to surrender at last .
“ Gentlemen , ” said the count , springing out , “ when you are tired of being actors , and wish to become spectators of this scene , you know you have places at my windows .
“ I will prevent you. ” 50127m “ And who are you , then , that arrogate to yourself this tyrannical right over free and rational beings ? ” “ Who am I ? ” repeated Monte Cristo .
“ Is it possible that you do not know of whom you purchased it ? ” “ Quite so ; my steward transacts all this business for me. ” “ It is certainly ten years since the house had been occupied , ” said Château-Renaud , “ and it was quite melancholy to look at it , with the blinds closed , the doors locked , and the weeds in the court .
The tree was easy to climb .
Many small donations ( $ 1 to $ 5,000 ) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS .
Chapter XXXVI .
On coming near the bank , she jumped lightly on shore and took to flight .
Noirtier ’ s hair was long and white , and flowed over his shoulders ; while in his eyes , shaded by thick black lashes , was concentrated , as it often happens with an organ which is used to the exclusion of the others , all the activity , address , force , and intelligence which were formerly diffused over his whole body ; and so although the movement of the arm , the sound of the voice , and the agility of the body , were wanting , the speaking eye sufficed for all .
“ Look , ” said he , “ is it not strange ? ” and he pointed out to D ’ Artagnan the scratch he had remembered .
The door soon opened and the accused appeared .
to be overwhelmed with insults and ignominy ?
The commissary took up an iron mallet and knocked thrice , every blow seeming to Dantès as if struck on his heart .
“ Never have I met with so remarkable a person as yourself. ” “ Willingly , ” answered the stranger ; “ if , indeed , you feel any curiosity respecting one , now , alas , powerless to aid you in any way. ” “ Say not so ; you can console and support me by the strength of your own powerful mind .
As the hour to wait upon the king was not till twelve , he had made a party with Porthos and Aramis to play a game at tennis in a tennis court situated near the stables of the Luxembourg .
“ Now , my young friend , ” said he , “ England is all our own .
Oh !
When he was quite a child , and only a shepherd , I gave him a few gold pieces for showing me my way , and he , in order to repay me , gave me a poniard , the hilt of which he had carved with his own hand , and which you may have seen in my collection of arms .
In a quarter of an hour he was entering the house in the Rue du Helder .
“ Yes , monseigneur , ” replied the officer .
It is an excellent spot for bringing down a man in proper style. ” “ I think , decidedly , ” observed Aramis , “ gentlemen , that the son hasn ’ t his mother ’ s energy. ” “ What , my good fellow ! ” replied Athos , “ wait awhile ; we have scarcely left him two hours ago—he does not know yet in what direction we came nor where we are .
Pyramus and Thisbe About two-thirds of the way along the Faubourg Saint-Honoré , and in the rear of one of the most imposing mansions in this rich neighborhood , where the various houses vie with each other for elegance of design and magnificence of construction , extended a large garden , where the wide-spreading chestnut-trees raised their heads high above the walls in a solid rampart , and with the coming of every spring scattered a shower of delicate pink and white blossoms into the large stone vases that stood upon the two square pilasters of a curiously wrought iron gate , that dated from the time of Louis XIII .
It is you who stabbed Selim .
“ Well , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ poor Athos is perhaps at this moment dead , and dead by my fault—for it was I who dragged him into this affair , of which he did not know the origin , of which he is ignorant of the result , and from which he can derive no advantage. ” “ Without reckoning , monsieur , ” added Planchet to his master ’ s audibly expressed reflections , “ that we perhaps owe our lives to him .
Porthos was ruminating over an excellent dinner he had just demolished .
My sister is happily married ; her husband is only my brother-in-law , that is , a man whom the ties of social life alone attach to me ; no one then longer needs my useless life .
You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that : • You pay a royalty fee of 20 % of the gross profits you derive from the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes .
If he defers he will find the place of honor taken. ” “ Shall I send word to him as coming from you ? ” “ Yes certainly. ” “ Shall I tell him that he can count on you ? ” “ To the end. ” “ And you will leave the command to him ? ” “ Of the war , yes , but in politics—— ” “ You must know it is not his element. ” “ He must leave me to negotiate for my cardinal ’ s hat in my own fashion. ” “ You care about it , then , so much ? ” “ Since they force me to wear a hat of a form which does not become me , ” said Gondy , “ I wish at least that the hat should be red. ” “ One must not dispute matters of taste and colors , ” said Rochefort , laughing .
The officer entered .
“ I felt instinctively that someone approached me ; it is said that the doomed wretch in the deserts of America thus feels the approach of the serpent .
Let us dispense with useless words .
Then the first pangs of an unending torture seized upon his heart .
Dantès waited only to get breath , and then dived , in order to avoid being seen .
“ I have not quitted you since yesterday , ” returned Fernand sorrowfully .
“ Sir ! ” cried the man , “ in the name of Heaven put your sword back into the sheath and don ’ t kill me unheard .
Although apparently not noticing Albert , he did not , however , lose sight of him , and when the curtain fell at the end of the second act , he saw him leave the orchestra with his two friends .
Villefort quietly opened a window , saying , “ It is very warm , and the heat affects M. Noirtier. ” He then returned to his place , but did not sit down .
What is done is done .
The aristocracy of the lance has allied itself with the nobility of the cannon .
Now , as I dislike him , and hope his railway , his electric telegraph , or his search for baths , will ruin him , I am watching for his discomfiture , which must soon take place. ” “ What was the cause of your quarrel ? ” “ When he was in England he seduced the wife of one of my friends. ” “ Why do you not seek revenge ? ” “ I have already fought three duels with him , ” said the Englishman , “ the first with the pistol , the second with the sword , and the third with the sabre. ” “ And what was the result of those duels ? ” “ The first time , he broke my arm ; the second , he wounded me in the breast ; and the third time , made this large wound. ” The Englishman turned down his shirt-collar , and showed a scar , whose redness proved it to be a recent one .
“ M .
That is not difficult .
He whose intellect was thus supreme , Raoul , was the actual sovereign ; the other , nothing but a phantom to whom he lent a soul ; and yet , so powerful is majesty amongst us , this man has not even the honor of a tomb at the feet of him in whose service his life was worn away .
He accepted my challenge , and , my faith , my seventy-five pistoles passed from my pocket to his , without reckoning my horse , which he won into the bargain .
With the queen I double her risk ; after the queen her departure would double mine ; then , the court once safe , I might be forgotten .
He stopped at a short distance from the house and alighted .
Amongst the Catalans , Mercédès wished for a thousand things , but still she never really wanted any .
Towards the close of the first act , the door of a box which had been hitherto vacant was opened ; a lady entered to whom Franz had been introduced in Paris , where indeed , he had imagined she still was .
you are acquainted with the young viscount , are you ? ” “ We were together a good deal during the Carnival at Rome. ” “ True , true , ” cried Danglars .
There was no answer , and she continued : “ I have not seen you all day .
But you don ’ t know us ; when we can ’ t have one thing we invent another. ” “ And have you communicated your triumphant idea to anybody ? ” “ Only to our host .
“ All faithful hearts with me ! ” cried out Winter .
or rather at what he said ? ” “ And what was he saying ? ” “ He said this , madame : ‘ Mazarin is a stumbling-block .
The notary , after having , according to the customary method , arranged the papers on the table , taken his place in an armchair , and raised his spectacles , turned towards Franz : “ Are you M. Franz de Quesnel , baron d ’ Épinay ? ” asked he , although he knew it perfectly .
On the contrary , one shot at this moment would be paid for dearly to-morrow. ” Comminges took his four guards and as many musketeers and ran to the carriage , from which he made the people inside dismount , and brought them to the vehicle which had upset .
Well , I shall write to the abbé ; I shall hold him responsible for his _protégé ’ s_ misconduct , and I shall soon know all about this assassination .
Bonacieux ; I say that I have reflected ; I renew the affair ; I obtain the letter , and I run directly to the cardinal. ” “ Well , go quickly !
These were the reasons which , added to the fatigue , caused Andrea to sleep so soundly .
“ We are about to have the honor of charging you , ” replied Aramis , lifting his hat with one hand and drawing his sword with the other .
Speak one word , madame , and I take upon myself to punish him for his want of courtesy. ” At the first word Milady turned , looking at the young man with astonishment ; and when he had finished , she said in very good French , “ Monsieur , I should with great confidence place myself under your protection if the person with whom I quarrel were not my brother. ” “ Ah , excuse me , then , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
for I think you told me it was a boy , M. Bertuccio. ” “ No excellency , I do not recollect telling you that. ” “ I thought you did ; I must have been mistaken. ” “ No , you were not , for it was in reality a little boy .
No ; he warms me with his rays , and it is by his light that I see you—nothing more .
“ Well , well , Dandré , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ Blacas is not yet convinced ; let us proceed , therefore , to the usurper ’ s conversion. ” The minister of police bowed .
Thousands of men , it is true , will have to pay for my happiness with their lives ; but what is that to me , provided I see you again !
Handle the musket and the sword , my dear fellow .
Then I should like to have three sons ; I should make the first a nobleman , like Athos ; the second a good soldier , like Porthos ; the third an excellent abbé , like Aramis .
If God were just , you know how many would be punished who now escape. ” “ Patience , ” said the abbé , in a tone which made the dying man shudder ; “ have patience ! ” Caderousse looked at him with amazement .
I must and will see him again .
Let her do what she likes with the duke ; I care no more about him than an empty bottle. ” And Athos threw fifteen paces from him an empty bottle from which he had poured the last drop into his glass .
“ Every soldier must be ambitious , must he not ?
I went out as if to fetch wood , passed through the subterranean passage into the cellar , and whilst Parry was gently bolting the door , pushed up the board and beckoned to the king to follow me .
You know I am not familiar with the French language , which you , monsieur le coadjuteur , both speak and write so well. ” ( “ This is a council of state , ” D ’ Artagnan remarked to Porthos ; “ but we held better ones at La Rochelle , with Athos and Aramis. ” “ At the Saint Gervais bastion , ” said Porthos .
It was purely and simply his removal , in terms clear and precise .
“ Oh , sir , ” she said ; “ oh , sir , what a misfortune !
She who out of friendship for me wished to take me from my persecutors .
He had but one fault—he was a gourmand ; he had found the pates good , the wine excellent .
Oh , you need not be alarmed , you will only have lost him as you have lost your daughter ; I mean that I shall be travelling on one of the thirty or forty roads leading out of France .
“ Man does not appear to me to be intended to enjoy felicity so unmixed ; happiness is like the enchanted palaces we read of in our childhood , where fierce , fiery dragons defend the entrance and approach ; and monsters of all shapes and kinds , requiring to be overcome ere victory is ours .
The count sat down .
“ I speak as one who admires you , mademoiselle. ” “ Mademoiselle , ” cried Valentine ; “ mademoiselle !
“ Only till the queen has given an heir to the crown of France. ” “ No jesting upon that subject , gentlemen , ” said Porthos ; “ thank God the queen is still of an age to give one ! ” “ They say that Monsieur de Buckingham is in France , ” replied Aramis , with a significant smile which gave to this sentence , apparently so simple , a tolerably scandalous meaning .
He sprang into his saddle ; the lackey took his place by the coachman ; the carriage went off at a quick pace , escorted by the three horsemen , and all was over .
‘ I can see neither heaven nor earth , ’ said the jeweller , who was outside the door .
Under the oldest and thickest of these trees , reclining on cushions , sat my father ; my mother was at his feet , and I , childlike , amused myself by playing with his long white beard which descended to his girdle , or with the diamond-hilt of the scimitar attached to his girdle .
A knife was plunged up to the hilt in Rita ’ s left breast .
“ I see spots of blood on the ground. ” And he set off to follow the two friends .
“ It is not he , ” she murmured , and waited , in the assurance that this was but a dream , for the man to disappear or assume some other form .
He is badly off , very badly. ” “ We are in France , and I am Spanish. ” “ So much the worse ; I had much rather you were French and myself also ; they would hate us both less. ” “ Nevertheless , you consent ? ” “ Yes , if the thing be possible. ” “ It is ; it is I who tell you so ; make preparations for departure. ” “ I !
“ Come in , ” said Louis XVIII. , with repressed smile , “ come in , Baron , and tell the duke all you know—the latest news of M. de Bonaparte ; do not conceal anything , however serious , —let us see , the Island of Elba is a volcano , and we may expect to have issuing thence flaming and bristling war—_bella , horrida bella_. ” M. Dandré leaned very respectfully on the back of a chair with his two hands , and said : “ Has your majesty perused yesterday ’ s report ? ” “ Yes , yes ; but tell the duke himself , who can not find anything , what the report contains—give him the particulars of what the usurper is doing in his islet. ” “ Monsieur , ” said the baron to the duke , “ all the servants of his majesty must approve of the latest intelligence which we have from the Island of Elba .
“ Why do you mention my father ? ” stammered he ; “ why do you mingle a recollection of him with the affairs of today ? ” “ Because I am he who saved your father ’ s life when he wished to destroy himself , as you do today—because I am the man who sent the purse to your young sister , and the _Pharaon_ to old Morrel—because I am the Edmond Dantès who nursed you , a child , on my knees. ” Morrel made another step back , staggering , breathless , crushed ; then all his strength give way , and he fell prostrate at the feet of Monte Cristo .
At the knock , the door was immediately opened , and the young man who was seated beside the countess , in obedience to the Italian custom , instantly rose and surrendered his place to the strangers , who , in turn , would be expected to retire upon the arrival of other visitors .
But , after we had taken in our cargo , the wind became contrary , so that we were four or five days without being able to enter the Rhône .
I can not return you many thanks for the drive of yesterday ; but , after all , I ought not to blame you for the misconduct of your horses , more especially as it procured me the pleasure of an introduction to the Count of Monte Cristo , —and certainly that illustrious personage , apart from the millions he is said to be so very anxious to dispose of , seemed to me one of those curiously interesting problems I , for one , delight in solving at any risk , even if it were to necessitate another drive to the Bois behind your horses .
I ask your excellencies ’ pardon , but this is quite a French demand ; for the next week you will not find a single tailor who would consent to sew six buttons on a waistcoat if you paid him a crown a piece for each button. ” “ Then I must give up the idea ? ” “ No ; we have them ready-made .
“ I have my pride for men—serpents always ready to threaten everyone who would pass without crushing them under foot .
a hundred pistoles !
His face was hidden under the wide brim of his hat .
“ I have the honor to inform your Majesty , ” continued M. de Tréville , in the same tone , “ that a party of _procureurs_ , commissaries , and men of the police—very estimable people , but very inveterate , as it appears , against the uniform—have taken upon themselves to arrest in a house , to lead away through the open street , and throw into Fort l ’ Evêque , all upon an order which they have refused to show me , one of my , or rather your Musketeers , sire , of irreproachable conduct , of an almost illustrious reputation , and whom your Majesty knows favorably , Monsieur Athos. ” “ Athos , ” said the king , mechanically ; “ yes , certainly I know that name. ” “ Let your Majesty remember , ” said Tréville , “ that Monsieur Athos is the Musketeer who , in the annoying duel which you are acquainted with , had the misfortune to wound Monsieur de Cahusac so seriously .
Come , I am a good sort of a prince , ’ added he , ‘ and although I like not Puritans I do them justice ; and it is the same with Puritanesses , when they are pretty .
D ’ Artagnan could not help perceiving that something more than usual was passing in the mind of his lackey and said , “ Well , Monsieur Planchet , what is the matter with us now ? ” “ Don ’ t you think , monsieur , that woods are like churches ? ” “ How so , Planchet ? ” “ Because we dare not speak aloud in one or the other. ” “ But why did you not dare to speak aloud , Planchet—because you are afraid ? ” “ Afraid of being heard ?
All along the road , what Athos had said respecting Mme .
“ Mazarin ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , bursting into a laugh .
40048m When Monte Cristo entered the boudoir , to which we have already once introduced our readers , and where the baroness was examining some drawings , which her daughter passed to her after having looked at them with M. Cavalcanti , his presence soon produced its usual effect , and it was with smiles that the baroness received the count , although she had been a little disconcerted at the announcement of his name .
Nevertheless , it was the rendezvous of the great world and all Paris went there .
Is it from thee ?
But , indeed , I am not prejudiced beyond the power of conviction .
They are the Count of Château-Renaud , whose nobility goes back to the twelve peers , and whose ancestors had a place at the Round Table ; M. Lucien Debray , private secretary to the minister of the interior ; M. Beauchamp , an editor of a paper , and the terror of the French government , but of whom , in spite of his national celebrity , you perhaps have not heard in Italy , since his paper is prohibited there ; and M. Maximilian Morrel , captain of Spahis. ” At this name the count , who had hitherto saluted everyone with courtesy , but at the same time with coldness and formality , stepped a pace forward , and a slight tinge of red colored his pale cheeks .
“ Now , would anybody think that this room contained a happy , merry party , who desire nothing better than to laugh and dance the hours away ? ” “ Ah , ” sighed Caderousse , “ a man can not always feel happy because he is about to be married. ” “ The truth is , ” replied Dantès , “ that I am too happy for noisy mirth ; if that is what you meant by your observation , my worthy friend , you are right ; joy takes a strange effect at times , it seems to oppress us almost the same as sorrow. ” Danglars looked towards Fernand , whose excitable nature received and betrayed each fresh impression .
It was then , when the count could not see Albert , that he sent for his servant , who he knew was authorized not to conceal anything from him .
In great dangers the devoted ones cling to each other ; and , young as I was , I quite understood that some imminent danger was hanging over our heads. ” Albert had often heard—not from his father , for he never spoke on the subject , but from strangers—the description of the last moments of the vizier of Yanina ; he had read different accounts of his death , but the story seemed to acquire fresh meaning from the voice and expression of the young girl , and her sympathetic accent and the melancholy expression of her countenance at once charmed and horrified him .
Every minute she had expected that it would vanish and give place to another vision ; but the man , instead of dissolving like a shadow , again approached her , and said in an agitated voice , “ Now you may drink. ” Valentine shuddered .
“ The _real_ reason , madame , I can assure you ; I know my father. ” “ But I want to know in what way M. d ’ Épinay can have displeased your father more than any other person ? ” “ I believe I know M. Franz d ’ Épinay , ” said the count ; “ is he not the son of General de Quesnel , who was created Baron d ’ Épinay by Charles X. ? ” “ The same , ” said Villefort .
At the very moment when the queen quitted the convent to go to the Palais Royal , a young man dismounted at the gate of this royal abode and announced to the guards that he had something of importance to communicate to Cardinal Mazarin .
But as soon as it was finished , the buzz was redoubled through all the drawing-rooms ; the brilliant sums , the rolling millions which were to be at the command of the two young people , and which crowned the display of the wedding presents and the young lady ’ s diamonds , which had been made in a room entirely appropriated for that purpose , had exercised to the full their delusions over the envious assembly .
Once a soldier , what would you do with me , a poor orphan , forlorn , without fortune , with nothing but a half-ruined hut and a few ragged nets , the miserable inheritance left by my father to my mother , and by my mother to me ?
tell them to order Number 25 to come downstairs. ” The unhappy wretch who entered the Bastile ceased , as he crossed the threshold , to be a man—he became a number .
“ Yes , ” said the man , thrusting his hands into his pockets , and looking impudently at the youth ; “ I have taken the whim into my head ; do you understand , Master Benedetto ? ” At this name , no doubt , the young man reflected a little , for he went towards his groom , saying : “ This man is right ; I did indeed charge him with a commission , the result of which he must tell me ; walk to the barrier , there take a cab , that you may not be too late. ” The surprised groom retired .
He was not mistaken ; peering through the crevices of the wooden partition , he soon discovered the young girl , who cast aside all her usual precautions and walked at once to the barrier .
She has no occasion to teach me the way in which a man of spirit may obtain his pardon .
Where , then , could he be , if he had entered his mother ’ s room and not since returned ?
She had , however , just power to give one parting look to her grandfather , who in losing her seemed to be resigning his very soul .
My eyes pierce the inmost recesses of the earth , and are dazzled at the sight of so much riches .
Accept my compliments ; your dinner has been a real feast .
Honor to man , this masterpiece of nature , this king of the creation ! ” And the count burst into a laugh ; a terrible laugh , that showed he must have suffered horribly to be able thus to laugh .
We will flee from Paris and go as far as the earth reaches .
It is impossible to form any idea of it without having seen it .
“ This time I did not content myself with looking , but I took my knife out of my pocket , felt that the point was sharp , and sprang over the wall .
“ Ah , ” said Monte Cristo , taking it from her hand .
As he had twenty times touched at Leghorn , he remembered a barber in St. Ferdinand Street ; he went there to have his beard and hair cut .
“ The unfortunate Barrois has been poisoned , ” said d ’ Avrigny , “ and I will maintain this assertion before God and man. ” Villefort said nothing , but he clasped his hands , opened his haggard eyes , and , overcome with his emotion , sank into a chair .
This new eruption was more dangerous than the others , being composed of armed men .
Strength and Sagacity—Continued .
“ It matters little .
Athos would have died rather than appeal for help ; but he could look , and with that look ask assistance .
This time he had decided to relate all that had passed .
Bertuccio sat down upon the chair , Andrea threw himself upon the bed ; the keeper retired .
They advanced to the plain .
You must have much reason to complain of him. ” “ Not very much , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Now , as D ’ Artagnan used no ceremony with Aramis , seeing that Bazin forgot to announce him , he announced himself .
I know too well the wisdom of the queen and that of her advisers to suppose that they will leave the capital long in trouble that may lead to a revolution. ” “ Thus , then , it is your opinion , ” said Anne of Austria , with a sneer and biting her lips with rage , “ that yesterday ’ s riot , which to-day is already a rebellion , to-morrow may become a revolution ? ” “ Yes , madame , ” replied the coadjutor , gravely .
When in a house , of whatever kind it may be , an individual suspected of any crime is arrested , the arrest is held secret .
“ I know it. ” And now the ranks began to open .
It was done on purpose for me—I am sure of it. ” “ Sir , ” said the baroness humbly , “ are you not aware that the man employed there was dismissed , that they talked of going to law with him , that orders were issued to arrest him and that this order would have been put into execution if he had not escaped by flight , which proves that he was either mad or guilty ?
The day before yesterday was a fish day , and they had nothing but meat. ” “ What , ” said Athos , “ no fish at a seaport ? ” “ They say , ” said Aramis , resuming his pious reading , “ that the dyke which the cardinal is making drives them all out into the open sea. ” “ But that is not quite what I mean to ask you , Aramis , ” replied Athos .
He did not even know I existed when it was arranged by your two families that you should be united .
“ No , thank you. ” “ Do you wish anything ? ” “ Leave me to pray. ” The count withdrew without opposition , but it was only to place himself in a situation where he could watch every movement of Morrel , who at length arose , brushed the dust from his knees , and turned towards Paris , without once looking back .
The Guards , under the command of M. Dessessart , took up their quarters at the Minimes ; but , as we know , D ’ Artagnan , possessed with ambition to enter the Musketeers , had formed but few friendships among his comrades , and he felt himself isolated and given up to his own reflections .
He was luxuriously stretched in a good English calash , with double springs ; he was drawn by four good horses , at full gallop ; he knew the relay to be at a distance of seven leagues .
As I said , monsieur , Lubin did not know me , and told me our adventure from one end to the other. ” “ Well done , Planchet !
Could you have imagined this scene , Château-Renaud , when we saw her , at the most three weeks ago , about to sign that contract ? ” “ Indeed , no , ” said Château-Renaud. ” “ Did you know her ? ” “ I spoke to her once or twice at Madame de Morcerf ’ s , among the rest ; she appeared to me charming , though rather melancholy .
Then do your best to keep our name free from dishonor .
Although our friends were expecting that condemnation , it filled them with grief .
I hoped in silence .
Who was the invisible chief ?
Thus , for instance , the excellent Abbé Adelmonte , of whom I spoke just now , made in this way some marvellous experiments. ” “ Really ? ” “ Yes ; I will mention one to you .
Section 1 .
I ’ ll circulate that saying , be assured , my dear fellow .
The stranger , whom as yet Dantès knew only by the number of his cell , sprang up with an agility by no means to be expected in a person of his years , and , light and steady on his feet as a cat or a lizard , climbed from the table to the outstretched hands of Dantès , and from them to his shoulders ; then , bending double , for the ceiling of the dungeon prevented him from holding himself erect , he managed to slip his head between the upper bars of the window , so as to be able to command a perfect view from top to bottom .
“ You are mistaken , my Lord , blood will flow ; and may that blood fall back on those who cause it to flow ! ” Felton uttered a cry , and rushed toward her .
So long as the nets were good , they caught fish ; and so long as they sold their fish , they were able to buy twine for new nets .
I warn you that I will never again work in the dark , and that I will know not only to what I expose myself , but for whom I expose myself. ” “ An illustrious person sends you ; an illustrious person awaits you .
Let us talk of your happy return , my boy .
The first part of the entertainment being concluded Pistache was desired to say what o ’ clock it was ; he was shown Monsieur de Chavigny ’ s watch ; it was then half-past six ; the dog raised and dropped his paw six times ; the seventh he let it remain upraised .
Progress of Cavalcanti the Younger Meanwhile M. Cavalcanti the elder had returned to his service , not in the army of his majesty the Emperor of Austria , but at the gaming-table of the baths of Lucca , of which he was one of the most assiduous courtiers .
for she should enjoy the sweetest pastime such events could accord a woman of her character—perfecting a beautiful vengeance .
“ D ’ Artagnan , ” he said , “ you are here to-night , still infuriated by yesterday ’ s adventure .
“ It shall be as you wish , madame , ” said Villefort ; “ more especially since your wishes coincide with mine , and as soon as M. d ’ Épinay arrives in Paris—— ” 30319m “ My dear grandmother , ” interrupted Valentine , “ consider decorum—the recent death .
I should be glad , however , to receive your excellency ’ s commands concerning the dinner. ” “ Really , my dear M. Bertuccio , ” said the count , “ since you have been in Paris , you have become quite nervous , and apparently out of your element ; you no longer seem to understand me. ” “ But surely your excellency will be so good as to inform me whom you are expecting to receive ? ” “ I do not yet know myself , neither is it necessary that you should do so .
At this moment Ali entered .
Is my father here ? ” “ Most undoubtedly , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ your father , Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti. ” The expression of terror which , for the moment , had overspread the features of the young man , had now disappeared .
Albert sprang out , bearing his _moccoletto_ in his hand .
So _au revoir_ , dear Athos. ” “ _Au revoir_ , ” said the Musketeer , making a sign to Grimaud to uncork the bottle he had just brought .
The return , also , of the conqueror of Lens was the pretext for giving a grand banquet .
There was nothing remarkable in the circumstance of a fragment of granite giving way and falling heavily below ; but it seemed to him that the substance that fell gave way beneath the pressure of a foot , and also that someone , who endeavored as much as possible to prevent his footsteps from being heard , was approaching the spot where he sat .
Thrust it into my mouth , my lord , thrust it in. ” Grimaud prepared to comply with this request , when the officer made a sign as if he had something to say .
Now , my dear host , while your young man was insensible , you did not fail , I am quite sure , to ascertain what that pocket contained .
“ What ! ” exclaimed Porthos , “ mutton again ? ” “ My dear Monsieur de Comminges , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you will find that my friend , Monsieur du Vallon , will go to the most fatal lengths if Cardinal Mazarin continues to provide us with this sort of meat ; mutton every day. ” “ I declare , ” said Porthos , “ I shall eat nothing if they do not take it away. ” “ Remove the mutton , ” cried Comminges ; “ I wish Monsieur du Vallon to sup well , more especially as I have news to give him that will improve his appetite. ” “ Is Mazarin dead ? ” asked Porthos .
It is that we are each of us twenty years older ; it is that the honest emotions of youth have given place to suggestions of interest , whispers of ambition , counsels of selfishness .
That might do if we were dealing with Englishmen or Germans. ” “ Oh , may God keep me from it , and you , too ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The door of their cabin was opened .
Still further , the sea , very rough at this period of the year all along the sea coast , destroyed every day some little vessel ; and the shore , from the point of l ’ Aiguillon to the trenches , was at every tide literally covered with the wrecks of pinnacles , _roberges_ , and feluccas .
At eleven o ’ clock Albert had not come back .
At first the king answered that he would not go ; but he could not resist his love of sport , and set out after dinner. ” “ And the king has seen the cardinal ? ” asked M. de Tréville .
I tried to open the door , but it was locked inside ; then I called the sergeant. ” “ And here I am , ” said the sergeant .
Broussel ! ” “ Halloo !
We are now on the sea , at night , without any pilot , in a frail bark ; should a blast of wind upset the boat we are lost. ” Mousqueton heaved a deep sigh .
“ Ah ! ” he muttered to himself , “ this changes the situation , and if there is still a crowd of people in the streets we will try to show Mazarin that we are still , thank God , good for something else than keeping guard over a prisoner ; ” and he jumped into the carriage with the alacrity of a man of five-and-twenty .
The doctor was a friend of the family , and at the same time one of the cleverest men of the day , and very fond of Valentine , whose birth he had witnessed .
“ This time the devil himself shall not save them , ” rejoined Mordaunt .
He felt an indescribable sensation somewhat akin to dread—that dread of the daylight which even in the desert makes us fear we are watched and observed .
He seized a rope which Dantès flung to him , and with an activity that would have done credit to a sailor , climbed up the side of the ship , while the young man , going to his task , left the conversation to Danglars , who now came towards the owner .
It is needless to say that this caution concerned Blaisois alone—long enough since it had been a useless one to Grimaud .
What is death for me ?
D ’ Artagnan , with a sigh , donned his uniform , which he would have exchanged for that of a Musketeer at the expense of ten years of his existence .
We have accomplished more difficult things than that .
Possibly this one , who asks nothing or seems to ask nothing , has asked more in the eyes of Heaven than those who tax the country and steal the bread of the poor .
Come , Fernand , won ’ t you return to Marseilles with us ? ” “ No , ” said Fernand ; “ I shall return to the Catalans. ” “ You ’ re wrong .
Here the deputies of the parliament had just arrived , in order to enter upon those famous conferences which were to last three weeks , and produced eventually that shameful peace , at the conclusion of which the prince was arrested .
No !
Madame de Villefort received them with equal solemnity .
“ Bring your comrades here , one and all ; but let everything remain as usual , only close the shutters of the ground floor. ” “ And those of the first floor ? ” “ You know they are never closed .
Buckingham could not under any pretense be admitted into France as an ambassador ; he wished to enter it as a conqueror .
The old man recognized his child , and Carlini recognized the old man .
For all evils there are two remedies—time and silence .
No , be assured , I am not mad .
I have only one thing to ask of you ; that is , the name of your true executioner .
“ The Sultan , the liberty of a woman , ” replied the Count ; “ the Pope , the life of a man ; so that once in my life I have been as powerful as if heaven had brought me into the world on the steps of a throne. ” “ And it was Peppino you saved , was it not ? ” cried Morcerf ; “ it was for him that you obtained pardon ? ” “ Perhaps , ” returned the count , smiling .
Her beautiful face was distorted with agony ; her glassy eyes had no longer their sight ; a convulsive shuddering shook her whole body ; the sweat rolled from her brow .
Excuse curiosity , but I wish to be enlightened on the subject. ” “ Because these prisoners , sir , are at my disposal and I choose to dispose of them as I like. ” “ Allow me—allow me , sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ to observe you are in error .
You will hear again from me. ” “ Come , come , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , emerging from behind the curtain , “ decidedly Monsieur Planchet is no fool ; it is evident he has been brought up in a good school. ” The different actors in this strange scene remained facing one another , without uttering a single word ; the queen standing near the door , D ’ Artagnan half out of his hiding place , the king raised on his elbow , ready to fall down on his bed again at the slightest sound that would indicate the return of the multitude , but instead of approaching , the noise became more and more distant and very soon it died entirely away .
As they approached the Piazza del Popolo , the crowd became more dense , and above the heads of the multitude two objects were visible : the obelisk , surmounted by a cross , which marks the centre of the square , and in front of the obelisk , at the point where the three streets , del Babuino , del Corso , and di Ripetta , meet , the two uprights of the scaffold , between which glittered the curved knife of the _mandaïa_ .
“ Diable ! ” resumed Aramis , “ I have little fancy for the sea by day , still less at night ; the sounds of wind and wave , the frightful movements of the vessel ; I confess I prefer the convent of Noisy. ” Athos smiled sadly , for it was evident that he was thinking of other things as he listened to his friend and moved toward De Winter .
Then you can quit your house , leaving your jewels and giving up your jointure , and everyone ’ s mouth will be filled with praises of your disinterestedness .
“ Had he escaped we should either have seen him or have heard him spoken of. ” “ You are right , Aramis , let us travel on. ” To describe the impatience and anxiety of these two friends would be impossible .
She expected every moment that she should see Morrel appear , pale and trembling , to forbid the signing of the contract , like the Laird of Ravenswood in _The Bride of Lammermoor_ .
After his wife the banker descended , as pale as though he had issued from his tomb instead of his carriage .
If it were not so far from here to the house I would return and finish him. ” “ And you would do well , if you are afraid of his recovering ; for you know , if a wound in the head does not kill at once , it is cured in a week. ” And D ’ Artagnan threw a second glance toward Parry , on whose face such an expression of joy was manifested that Charles stretched out his hand to him , smiling .
The count withdrew his foot .
Only their wish to see each other had become a necessity , and they would have preferred death to a day ’ s separation .
Athos dwelt in the Rue Férou , within two steps of the Luxembourg .
Do not refuse this little service .
“ No , no , ” cried the abbé ; “ impossible ! ” Dantès endeavored to renew the subject ; the abbé shook his head in token of disapproval , and refused to make any further response .
Don ’ t you agree with me , Aramis ? ” “ Entirely , my dear count .
She is a remarkable woman , and I only regret that there does not exist another like her , about twenty years younger ; in that case , I assure you , there would very soon be a Countess and Viscountess of Morcerf .
All doubt of his identity was now at an end ; his singular host evidently resided at Rome .
He saw before him an officer delegated to enforce the law , and perfectly well knew that it would be as unavailing to seek pity from a magistrate decked with his official scarf , as to address a petition to some cold marble effigy .
Oh , God , thou hast preserved my memory ; I thank thee , I thank thee ! ” At this moment the light of the torch was reflected on the wall ; the guide was coming ; Monte Cristo went to meet him .
“ And are the first of men ! ” added D ’ Artagnan .
Bravo !
“ Well , then , ” said Milady , “ I confide in my brother ; I will dare to— ” At this moment the steps of Lord de Winter were heard ; but this time the terrible brother-in-law of Milady did not content himself , as on the preceding day , with passing before the door and going away again .
In one was depicted the “ Illustrious Coxcomb ” receiving a shower of blows from Cardinal Bentivoglio , whose servant he had been ; another , the “ Illustrious Mazarin ” acting the part of Ignatius Loyola in a tragedy of that name ; a third , the “ Illustrious Mazarin ” stealing the portfolio of prime minister from Monsieur de Chavigny , who had expected to have it ; a fourth , the “ Illustrious Coxcomb Mazarin ” refusing to give Laporte , the young king ’ s valet , clean sheets , and saving that “ it was quite enough for the king of France to have clean sheets every three months. ” The governor , of course , thought proper to threaten his prisoner that if he did not give up drawing such pictures he should be obliged to deprive him of all the means of amusing himself in that manner .
Neither of them had returned .
A wax-light placed on the mantle-piece threw some of its pale rays without , and a shadow was seen for one moment on the balcony .
Are they all full ? ” Grimaud translated the question , and Groslow , who was wiping the perspiration from off his forehead , answered : “ Some full , others empty. ” D ’ Artagnan struck the barrels with his hand , and having ascertained that he spoke the truth , pushed his lantern , greatly to the captain ’ s alarm , into the interstices between the barrels , and finding that there was nothing concealed in them : “ Come along , ” he said ; and he went toward the door of the second compartment .
He saw me this morning for the first time , and has already forgotten he has seen me .
The sailors looked at one another .
I will neither open my mouth nor draw my sword between this and Calais .
Their connection could not last long without ruining both .
Have you informed him of it ? ” “ I wrote to him from Boulogne .
How many magnificent projects of vengeance she conceives by the light of the flashes which her tempestuous passion casts over her mind against Mme .
“ We have no time to lose ; I will question , and do you answer me. ” Noirtier made a sign that he was ready to answer .
Give me those papers , and leave us. ” The officer took from the table the papers pointed out , gave them to him who asked for them , bowed to the ground , and retired .
She was mad with passion .
“ Why , ” replied Dantès , “ I see nothing but broken lines and unconnected words , which are rendered illegible by fire. ” “ Yes , to you , my friend , who read them for the first time ; but not for me , who have grown pale over them by many nights ’ study , and have reconstructed every phrase , completed every thought. ” “ And do you believe you have discovered the hidden meaning ? ” “ I am sure I have , and you shall judge for yourself ; but first listen to the history of this paper. ” “ Silence ! ” exclaimed Dantès .
What !
“ Do you , then , know in what manner Fernand injured Dantès ? ” inquired the abbé of Caderousse .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said , “ our presence here is the best proof of former friendship ; not one of us has failed the others at this rendezvous ; not one has , therefore , to reproach himself. ” “ Hear me , count , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ instead of making compliments to each other , let us explain our conduct to each other , like men of right and honest hearts. ” “ I wish for nothing more ; have you any cause of complaint against me or Monsieur d ’ Herblay ?
All the delicacies , in fact , that are cast up by the wash of waters on the sandy beach , and styled by the grateful fishermen “ fruits of the sea. ” “ A pretty silence truly ! ” said the old father of the bridegroom , as he carried to his lips a glass of wine of the hue and brightness of the topaz , and which had just been placed before Mercédès herself .
Our host has a well-furnished cellar the key of which never leaves him ; only this cellar has a ventilating hole .
La Ramee then proposed to send some one to pick them up , but the duke remarked that it would be losing time ; and going near the rampart himself and looking over , he saw a man working in one of the numerous little gardens cleared out by the peasants on the opposite side of the moat .
“ What is the matter ? ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , anxiously ; “ what has happened to you , my Lord ? ” “ All is lost ! ” cried Buckingham , becoming as pale as a corpse ; “ two of the studs are wanting , there are only ten. ” “ Can you have lost them , my Lord , or do you think they have been stolen ? ” “ They have been stolen , ” replied the duke , “ and it is the cardinal who has dealt this blow .
The file on the Corso broke the line , and in a second all the carriages had disappeared .
Now , here , Montaran , we will do better than that—let each take a half. ” “ Of the handkerchief ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Perfectly just , ” cried the other two Guardsmen , “ the judgment of King Solomon !
These two women gave him more uneasiness than the war with Spain , the quarrel with England , or the embarrassment of the finances .
It was evident that the cardinal was weighing beforehand the terms in which he was about to speak , and that Milady was collecting all her intellectual faculties to comprehend the things he was about to say , and to engrave them in her memory when they should be spoken .
“ To the visitors ’ room ! ” said the same voice .
M. Bonacieux lived on very quietly , wholly ignorant of what had become of his wife , and caring very little about it .
He promised .
Cavalcanti , dressed in black , like one of Goethe ’ s heroes , with varnished shoes and white silk open-worked stockings , passed a white and tolerably nice-looking hand through his light hair , and so displayed a sparkling diamond , that in spite of Monte Cristo ’ s advice the vain young man had been unable to resist putting on his little finger .
“ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” he said , “ you are to take this dispatch to the Bastile and bring back here the person it concerns .
“ No ; I am sorry to tell you he is perfectly well. ” “ So much the worse , ” said Porthos .
“ Grimaud , my friend , ” said the viscount , “ will you leave me thus , in such anxiety ?
“ As for me , I feel anxious to preach a sermon , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Unfold your plan , my lord , and we will see. ” “ Take notice that you are shut up—captured. ” “ You well know , my lord , that there always remains to us a last resource. ” “ What ? ” “ That of dying together. ” Mazarin shuddered .
No , I am wrong .
I have a jolly little circle of witty abbés and pretty women ; everything goes on smoothly , so certainly , dear friend , I shall not meddle in politics. ” “ Well , listen , my dear Aramis , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ your philosophy convinces me , on my honor .
let ’ s fly the feather before the wind ; let us join with that side to which the wind will carry it and resume our adventurous life .
Mazarin turned the lock of a double door , on the threshold of which they found Athos ready to receive his illustrious guests according to the notice Comminges had given him .
An instant after they were on the deck .
Often , before his captivity , Dantès ’ mind had revolted at the idea of assemblages of prisoners , made up of thieves , vagabonds , and murderers .
under his assumed name , in order that he might be appointed to the post he subsequently held .
“ No violence ; violence is the proof of weakness .
In ten minutes Luigi and the traveller reached the cross-roads .
“ Of what country are you ? ” asked the prince .
“ What have I to do with politics ?
Next moment the door opened and the man disappeared. ” “ The scoundrel ! ” said Aramis .
Then D ’ Artagnan , who had never seriously thought of this impossible duel , endeavored to turn the conversation ; but he could not succeed .
Pray , try and obtain a small government pension for her. ’ “ ‘ Every revolution has its catastrophes , ’ returned M. de Villefort ; ‘ your brother has been the victim of this .
Just as he turned , a hand rested on his shoulder , and a voice which made him shudder exclaimed : “ Good-evening , Maximilian ; you are punctual , thank you ! ” “ Ah , is it you , count ? ” said the young man , in an almost joyful accent , pressing Monte Cristo ’ s hand with both his own .
Otherwise , you see , although I am sure that General Oliver Cromwell can intend them no harm , it would have a bad appearance. ” Mordaunt recoiled ; he felt the blow and discharged a terrible look at D ’ Artagnan , who responded by the most amiable expression that ever graced a human countenance .
Ha , ha , ha ! ” She burst into a forced and melancholy laugh , her arms stiffened and twisted , her head fell back on her chair , and she remained motionless .
Justify yourself if you can .
Beauchamp wished to go in alone , but Albert observed that as this was an unusual circumstance he might be allowed to deviate from the usual etiquette of duels .
The young man having left his horse tied to the gate in the court , mounted the great staircase and addressed the guard in the first chamber .
Athos nevertheless was visibly anxious to find someone of whom he could ask a question .
what ’ s that ? ” “ The Lightning , ” answered the captain , “ our felucca. ” “ So far , so good , ” laughed Athos .
With the first rays of day their tongues were loosened ; with the sun gaiety revived .
We have a rendezvous , you remember , at the Place Royale. ” “ Ah !
She could not comprehend how a man could conceive such an enterprise and still less how he could have the audacity to disclose it to her whose interest and almost duty it was to punish him .
Indeed , I should expect misfortunes. ” “ M .
“ Yes , —Christian and surname are the same .
It was Winter ’ s .
Oh , if my mother were still living , there would be nothing to fear , Maximilian , for I would tell her that I loved you , and she would protect us. ” “ I fear , Valentine , ” replied the lover , “ that were she living I should never have had the happiness of knowing you ; you would then have been too happy to have stooped from your grandeur to bestow a thought on me. ” “ Now it is you who are unjust , Maximilian , ” cried Valentine ; “ but there is one thing I wish to know. ” “ And what is that ? ” inquired the young man , perceiving that Valentine hesitated .
They must disappear , broken , scattered , annihilated .
nothing good , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , shaking his head .
“ Yesterday morning , madame. ” “ Coming , as usual , I presume , from the extreme end of the globe ?
“ Come , now , ” he said .
“ Do you intend to sit up for me ? ” “ No ; but since my arrest and the robbery that was committed in my house , I am alarmed every time I hear a door open , particularly in the night .
Edmond , if you knew all the prayers I have addressed to God for you while I thought you were living and since I have thought you must be dead !
“ Do as you like , ” she said , “ I rely upon you. ” “ Will your majesty permit me to give orders in your name throughout this business ? ” “ Command , sir. ” “ What do the people want this time ? ” demanded the king .
We might say that was his dream .
“ Oh , then let it be directly ! ” exclaimed the young man .
Coquenard gently advised him to be patient .
Since I have the good fortune to meet you , I beg you to receive them , and to hold me always as one of your friends. ” “ Monsieur the Duke , ” said M. de Tréville , “ I was so confident of your loyalty that I required no other defender before his Majesty than yourself .
“ In all probability he has , ” replied the valet , “ for I saw the horses harnessed to his Eminence ’ s carriage this morning , and when I asked where he was going , they told me , ‘ To St. Germain. ’ ” “ He is beforehand with us , ” said M. de Tréville .
Confide in me .
This first moment had been delayed five days , which , under any other circumstances , might have appeared rather long to M. Bonacieux ; but he had , in the visit he had made to the cardinal and in the visits Rochefort had made him , ample subjects for reflection , and as everybody knows , nothing makes time pass more quickly than reflection .
We have learnt nothing , forgotten nothing !
No , listen to me ; I have the true idea. ” “ Let us see your idea , Aramis , ” said Athos , who felt much deference for the young Musketeer .
You may one day be the captain of a vessel .
Your eminence does not then know where Monsieur de Beaufort is ? ” “ Yes , I do , sir ; in the donjon of Vincennes. ” “ Yes , sir ; in a room , the walls of which are seven feet thick , with grated windows , each bar as thick as my arm. ” “ Sir , ” replied Mazarin , “ with perseverance one may penetrate through a wall ; with a watch-spring one may saw through an iron bar. ” “ Then my lord does not know that there are eight guards about him , four in his chamber , four in the antechamber , and that they never leave him. ” “ But he leaves his room , he plays at tennis at the Mall ? ” “ Sir , those amusements are allowed ; but if your eminence wishes it , we will discontinue the permission. ” “ No , no ! ” cried Mazarin , fearing that should his prisoner ever leave his prison he would be the more exasperated against him if he thus retrenched his amusement .
And when the jeweller Johannes had just paid you 45,000 francs for the diamond I had given you , and you killed him to get the diamond and the money both , was that also poverty ? ” “ Pardon , reverend sir , ” said Caderousse ; “ you have saved my life once , save me again ! ” “ That is but poor encouragement. ” “ Are you alone , reverend sir , or have you there soldiers ready to seize me ? ” “ I am alone , ” said the abbé , “ and I will again have pity on you , and will let you escape , at the risk of the fresh miseries my weakness may lead to , if you tell me the truth. ” “ Ah , reverend sir , ” cried Caderousse , clasping his hands , and drawing nearer to Monte Cristo , “ I may indeed say you are my deliverer ! ” “ You mean to say you have been freed from confinement ? ” “ Yes , that is true , reverend sir. ” “ Who was your liberator ? ” “ An Englishman. ” “ What was his name ? ” “ Lord Wilmore. ” “ I know him ; I shall know if you lie. ” “ Ah , reverend sir , I tell you the simple truth. ” “ Was this Englishman protecting you ? ” “ No , not me , but a young Corsican , my companion. ” “ What was this young Corsican ’ s name ? ” “ Benedetto. ” “ Is that his Christian name ? ” “ He had no other ; he was a foundling. ” “ Then this young man escaped with you ? ” “ He did. ” “ In what way ? ” “ We were working at Saint-Mandrier , near Toulon .
come ! ” “ But where is the doctor ? ” exclaimed Villefort ; “ where is he ? ” Madame de Villefort now deliberately descended the staircase .
What has been the result ? —that , thanks to my pretended ignorance , there is none of your friends , from M. de Villefort to M. Debray , who has not trembled before me .
A GASCON A MATCH FOR CUPID Chapter XXXVI .
“ And what , ” he continued , “ has been done with the poor body ? ” “ By order of Cromwell royal honors will be accorded to it .
“ Excellencies , ” said he , “ the coach is ready. ” “ Well , then , ” said Franz , “ let us to the Colosseum. ” “ By the Porta del Popolo or by the streets , your excellencies ? ” “ By the streets , _morbleu ! _ by the streets ! ” cried Franz .
You are alone , one alone shall answer you ; you have a sword by your side , I have one in my cane ; you have no witness , one of these gentlemen will serve you .
In Rome , as everywhere else , the arrival of a post-chaise is an event .
In consequence , after having traveled all night , at seven o ’ clock she was at the fort of the Point ; at eight o ’ clock she had embarked ; and at nine , the vessel , which with letters of marque from the cardinal was supposed to be sailing for Bayonne , raised anchor , and steered its course toward England .
“ It is your new master , my good fellow , ” said the footman .
But imagination has the wings of an angel of light and travels safely through or over the seas where we have been almost shipwrecked , the darkness in which our illusions are lost , the precipice whence our happiness has been hurled and swallowed up .
“ Ah , monsieur , ” said Planchet , on perceiving D ’ Artagnan , “ how glad I am to see you. ” “ Why so , Planchet ? ” asked the young man .
I sought out the best fencing master in Paris , I made an agreement with him to take a lesson every day , and every day for a year I took that lesson .
They halted for the king to dine .
By the way , Planchet , I think you are right with respect to our host , and that he is decidedly a frightfully low wretch. ” “ Ah , monsieur , you may take my word when I tell you anything .
Poor cardinal !
Then , while Madame de Saint-Méran remained on her knees , praying fervently , Villefort sent for a cab , and went himself to fetch his wife and daughter from Madame de Morcerf ’ s .
In the night he slept , but in the morning , refreshed and calm , he was inspired with his clearest views of everything .
Everyone knows the history of the famous return from Elba , a return which was unprecedented in the past , and will probably remain without a counterpart in the future .
But as M. de Toiras gave information that everything was preparing in the enemy ’ s camp for a fresh assault , the king judged that it would be best to put an end to the affair , and gave the necessary orders for a decisive action .
Groslow is on guard there this evening , and to pass the time away he has invited us to keep him company. ” “ All four of us ? ” asked Athos .
“ He calls me his dear Monsieur , ” said the mercer to himself .
He was still young—he was only four or five-and-twenty—he had nearly fifty years to live .
You must be cruelly bored here. ” “ That was my intention ; but , my dear friend , I have one thing to confess to you. ” “ What ’ s that ? ” “ It is that as I was cruelly bored , as you say , and as I had the seventy-five pistoles in my pocket which you had distributed to me , in order to amuse myself I invited a gentleman who was traveling this way to walk up , and proposed a cast of dice .
Lord Wilmore , having heard the door close after him , returned to his bedroom , where with one hand he pulled off his light hair , his red whiskers , his false jaw , and his wound , to resume the black hair , dark complexion , and pearly teeth of the Count of Monte Cristo .
“ Stop , sir , look yonder , ” he whispered ; “ don ’ t you see in the darkness something pass by , like shadows ?
Franz untied it , and in the midst of the most profound silence read : 40038m “ ‘ _Extract of the report of a meeting of the Bonapartist Club in the Rue Saint-Jacques , held February 5th , 1815_. ’ ” Franz stopped .
But his successive defeats did service to the duke in one way—they killed time for him till eight o ’ clock in the evening ; then would come night , and with night , sleep .
“ Then you must suffer hunger. ” “ Suffer hunger ? ” said Danglars , becoming pale .
Meanwhile , Danglars , stooping to Monte Cristo ’ s ear , “ Your advice was excellent , ” said he ; “ there is a whole history connected with the names Fernand and Yanina. ” “ Indeed ? ” said Monte Cristo .
If you are outside the United States , check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading , copying , displaying , performing , distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work .
From that moment the old man ’ s eyes were fixed on the door , and did not quit it .
General Quesnel , it appears , had just left a Bonapartist club when he disappeared .
You told me yourself that that ring— ” “ That ring I have !
“ I love your devotedness , ” said Milady .
The young man stopped suddenly , looked around him , and perceived Caderousse sitting at table with Danglars , under an arbor .
Athos had passed through all the examinations we have seen Bonacieux undergo .
“ A complicated affair , ” said Porthos ; “ where will you begin ? ” “ It is arranged capitally ; his eminence expects me in half an hour. ” “ Good. ” “ My friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , turning to the servant , “ tell his eminence that in half an hour I shall be at his command. ” “ It is very fortunate , ” resumed the Gascon , when the valet had retired , “ that he did not meet the other one. ” “ Do you not think that they have sent for you , both for the same thing ? ” “ I do not think it , I am certain of it. ” “ Quick , quick , D ’ Artagnan .
“ Your eminence , it concerns the war which the king , my husband , is now sustaining against his rebellious subjects .
An elegant carriage waited below , and as it was drawn by two excellent horses , they were soon at the Place Royale .
On the contrary , I gave you to understand , I think , that I adhered to the princes .
Our game is beaten up .
27 , Rue du Helder , Paris. ” The abbé opened his mouth , hesitated for a moment , then , making an effort at self-control , he said , “ And Mercédès—they tell me that she has disappeared ? ” “ Disappeared , ” said Caderousse , “ yes , as the sun disappears , to rise the next day with still more splendor. ” “ Has she made a fortune also ? ” inquired the abbé , with an ironical smile .
It anticipates , through a sentiment which your eminence will appreciate , measures to be taken after the events .
“ And will you engage not to do any harm to the sentry , except as a last resort ? ” “ I promise on my honor. ” “ Then , ” said the abbé , “ we may hope to put our design into execution. ” “ And how long shall we be in accomplishing the necessary work ? ” “ At least a year. ” “ And shall we begin at once ? ” “ At once. ” “ We have lost a year to no purpose ! ” cried Dantès .
“ No ; explain yourself , I beg. ” “ As he mistrusted me , he determined to guard you himself , and sent me in his place to get Buckingham to sign the order for your transportation. ” “ But if he mistrusted you , how could he confide such an order to you ? ” “ How could I know what I was the bearer of ? ” “ That ’ s true !
Now , Valentine , I firmly believe that he knew of my wish to possess this horse , and that he lost expressly to give me the means of procuring him. ” “ My dear Maximilian , you are really too fanciful ; you will not love even me long .
We chased him for six hours , and when he was near being taken—when St. Simon was already putting his horn to his mouth to sound the _halali_—crack , all the pack takes the wrong scent and sets off after a two-year-older .
I recognize Grimaud by his long legs and his determined slouch .
All the way along D ’ Artagnan had been consulting with himself whether he should place confidence in M. de Tréville , or whether he should only ask him to give him _carte blanche_ for some secret affair .
Then , with a sigh , “ Poor Haydée ! ” murmured he .
OFFICER Chapter LII .
Are you not the Lieutenant Fernand who served as guide and spy to the French army in Spain ?
Save me !
The discourse being finished , the queen remained silent .
You know the calamity that has happened to us , do you not ? ” “ I know nothing. ” said M. d ’ Avrigny .
“ You are among friends , ” said Athos , in English ; “ so cheer up , and tell us , if you have the strength to do so , what has happened ? ” “ The king , ” muttered the wounded man , “ the king is a prisoner. ” “ You have seen him ? ” asked Aramis , in the same language .
“ Does this man know your majesty personally ? ” inquired Aramis .
D ’ Artagnan comprehended their irresolution .
He perceived in the tavern a pert boy between twelve and fifteen years of age whom he fancied he had seen not twenty minutes before under the guise of a chorister .
old woman ! ” screamed Nanette .
“ Do you know if the marriage settlement he promised me has come ? ” “ I have been advised of it. ” “ But the three millions ? ” “ The three millions are probably on the road. ” “ Then I shall really have them ? ” “ Oh , well , ” said the count , “ I do not think you have yet known the want of money. ” Andrea was so surprised that he pondered the matter for a moment .
“ Eh , monsieur ! ” said he , addressing D ’ Artagnan , “ don ’ t you remember that face which is blinking yonder ? ” “ No , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and yet I am certain it is not the first time I have seen that visage. ” “ _Parbleu_ , I believe it is not , ” said Planchet .
Bonacieux , he could obtain no intelligence of her .
The Comte de la Fere inhabits the Castle of Bragelonne , in the environs of that city. ” Chapter XIII .
We were able to prove the contrary , and that proof we are ready to give to your majesty , calling in support of it the august widow weeping in the Louvre , where your royal munificence has provided for her a home .
Now , at the moment when I left his house— ” Here Aramis paused .
“ Oh , the deuce !
“ I mean that at this hour the headsman has been got out of the way by force or persuasion .
While waiting his assistance I trust to your word ; you have said that my son should live , have you not ? ” “ Yes , madame , he shall live , ” said Monte Cristo , surprised that without more emotion Mercédès had accepted the heroic sacrifice he made for her .
and I see you playing with the pommel of your sword , as if you had a great inclination to break the holy father ’ s head. ” “ Yes , count , it is a strange thing and one which might astonish you , but I feel an indescribable horror at the sight of yonder man .
The child was small for his age , and unnaturally pale .
These words were uttered in so mournful a tone that their real meaning did not escape Albert ; he felt his heart beat , and taking his mother ’ s hand within his own he said , tenderly : “ Yes , you will live ! ” “ I shall live ! —then you will not leave me , Albert ? ” “ Mother , I must go , ” said Albert in a firm , calm voice ; “ you love me too well to wish me to remain useless and idle with you ; besides , I have signed. ” 50145m “ You will obey your own wish and the will of Heaven ! ” “ Not my own wish , mother , but reason—necessity .
A few hundred yards beyond the town D ’ Artagnan drew rein .
“ Baptistin , ” said the count , “ have the other fish brought in—the sterlet and the lamprey which came in the other casks , and which are yet alive. ” Danglars opened his bewildered eyes ; the company clapped their hands .
I remember well that diamond , which belonged to the queen. ” “ You see , then , that I speak to you in the queen ’ s name .
Have we relations with the court ?
The intrepid treasure-seeker walked round it , and , selecting the spot from whence it appeared most susceptible to attack , placed his lever in one of the crevices , and strained every nerve to move the mass .
“ ’ Tis a very strong post , ” he resumed , “ and we have forty good men , tried soldiers , having no connection with Frondeurs nor any interest in the Fronde. ” “ If we put these three men together , Monsieur Comminges , ” said Mazarin , “ we must double the guard , and we are not rich enough in fighting men to commit such acts of prodigality. ” Comminges smiled ; Mazarin read and construed that smile .
“ And who knows it ? ” Noirtier looked at the door where the servant had gone out .
Make the requisite inquiries for a place of this description , and when you have met with an eligible spot , visit it , and if it possess the advantages desired , purchase it at once in your own name .
Madame Danglars whispered a few words in the ear of Debray , who approached Monte Cristo , saying , “ The baroness wishes to know what you paid her husband for the horses. ” “ I scarcely know , ” replied the count ; “ it was a little surprise prepared for me by my steward , and cost me—well , somewhere about 30,000 francs. ” Debray conveyed the count ’ s reply to the baroness .
Grimaud was on his legs again as if by a spring .
D ’ Artagnan went last , still shaking his head .
Athos and Aramis left Paris after this coup-d ’ etat , which took place on the very evening of the day in which the Parisians had been beaten at Charenton .
“ And I mine , ” said Porthos .
A Summer Ball Chapter 69 .
“ Rochefort , ” said the cardinal , “ you see Monsieur d ’ Artagnan .
The queen had restored Broussel and Blancmesnil to the people and had therefore nothing to fear , since the people had nothing more just then to ask for .
The steward made a gesture that signified , “ I do not know. ” The notary looked at the count with astonishment .
“ Jesu ! ” cried Planchet , “ can it be ? ” At this exclamation the man on horseback turned slowly and with a lofty air , and the two travelers could see , displayed in all their brilliancy , the large eyes , the vermilion visage , and the eloquent smile of—Mousqueton .
“ ‘ I come to ask to be your captain , ’ said the young man .
why , you strike like a blind or a deaf man. ” “ It was necessary ; my man was going to fire a pistol at me ; but you—how did you get rid of yours ? ” “ Oh , mine , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ was not a man. ” “ What was it then ? ” “ It was an apparition. ” “ And—— ” “ I charmed it away. ” Without further explanation D ’ Artagnan took the pistols which were upon the front seat , placed them in his belt , wrapped himself in his cloak , and not wishing to enter by the same gate as that through which they had left , he took his way toward the Richelieu gate .
“ How very astonishing ! ” cried he at length .
Athos fixed upon a certain Cahusac , a favorite of the cardinal ’ s .
Left alone , the cardinal seated himself again and wrote a letter , which he secured with his special seal .
“ Be easy on that head , ” replied Athos ; “ you know I am cool enough. ” Porthos and Aramis resumed their places by the stovepipe .
Arrived here only yesterday morning , and married today at three o ’ clock !
The captain of the Musketeers was therefore admired , feared , and loved ; and this constitutes the zenith of human fortune .
“ You surely will not do that , my dear count ? ” “ Certainly I shall , Albert , as I have promised to do it. ” “ Well , ” said Albert , with a sigh , “ it seems you are determined to marry me. ” “ I am determined to try and be on good terms with everybody , at all events , ” said Monte Cristo .
You see I am dying ! ” D ’ Artagnan released the hands of Athos which he still held clasped in both his own , and hastened to her .
Had you known this Edmond Dantès , of whom they spoke ? ” “ No , your excellency , I had never heard of him before , and never but once afterwards , and that was from the Abbé Busoni himself , when I saw him in the prison at Nîmes. ” “ Go on. ” “ The jeweller took the ring , and drawing from his pocket a pair of steel pliers and a small set of copper scales , he took the stone out of its setting , and weighed it carefully .
Provincial diffidence , that slight varnish , the ephemeral flower , that down of the peach , had evaporated to the winds through the little orthodox counsels which the three Musketeers gave their friend .
“ Is it possible , ” said he , “ that where your liberty is at stake you can allow any such scruple to deter you from obtaining it ? ” “ Tell me , ” replied Faria , “ what has hindered you from knocking down your jailer with a piece of wood torn from your bedstead , dressing yourself in his clothes , and endeavoring to escape ? ” “ Simply the fact that the idea never occurred to me , ” answered Dantès .
“ I have paid you five hundred of them. ” “ That ’ s correct , ” said the captain .
It would quite cut me up. ” “ You are a very odd man , Athos , ” he replied , “ to doubt me thus .
Believe me , the eye of the eagle is closed forever .
They expected that his stupefied silence would be followed by a fiery outburst .
“ But , ” continued M. de Tréville , fixing upon his compatriot a look so piercing that it might be said he wished to read the thoughts of his heart , “ on account of my old companion , your father , as I have said , I will do something for you , young man .
The guide took them , thinking them merely a few pieces of little value ; but the light of the torch revealed their true worth .
It was now Athos ’ s turn to take a sly look .
“ I do not wish to be taken by surprise , ” added the king .
“ Yes , ” he said .
CAPTIVITY : THE SECOND DAY Milady dreamed that she at length had D ’ Artagnan in her power , that she was present at his execution ; and it was the sight of his odious blood , flowing beneath the ax of the headsman , which spread that charming smile upon her lips .
if we only had some one to instruct us about the physical and moral topography of this castle .
“ That of Rouen ; but you will leave the city on your right .
He leaped over the corpse as if it had been a burning brazier .
“ Eh , your excellency ?
In the first place it had been made by a man quite drunk to one who was half drunk ; and yet , in spite of the incertainty which the vapor of three or four bottles of Burgundy carries with it to the brain , D ’ Artagnan , when awaking on the following morning , had all the words of Athos as present to his memory as if they then fell from his mouth—they had been so impressed upon his mind .
D ’ Artagnan asked the poor girl what was the matter with her ; but she , as her only reply , drew a letter from her pocket and gave it to him .
It would be ridiculous in me to regulate my conduct by such caprices .
Bonacieux ; that he had never spoken to the one or the other ; that he had come , at about ten o ’ clock in the evening , to pay a visit to his friend M. d ’ Artagnan , but that till that hour he had been at M. de Tréville ’ s , where he had dined .
His presence produced a good effect .
You have come , then , at last !
This lackey was my compatriot ; and we became the more intimate from there being many resemblances of character between us .
“ I said I wished to be alone , ” he exclaimed , on seeing the young man .
When the name of Colonel Fairfax was called , one of those brief but solemn silences ensued , which announced the absence of the members who had no wish to take a personal part in the trial .
“ Here , sir , ” said a voice behind him .
“ I hope what you have to tell me is worth the trouble , or else , I warn you , I will not pardon you for making me come here instead of getting a little rest after a night spent in taking and dismantling a bastion .
During the period that the Duc de Bassompierre passed in the Bastile—where he remained for twelve long years—when his companions , in their dreams of liberty , said to each other : “ As for me , I shall go out of the prison at such a time , ” and another , at such and such a time , the duke used to answer , “ As for me , gentlemen , I shall leave only when Monsieur du Tremblay leaves ; ” meaning that at the death of the cardinal Du Tremblay would certainly lose his place at the Bastile and De Bassompierre regain his at court .
“ Your pistols are beside your desk , ” said Monte Cristo , pointing with his finger to the pistols on the table .
“ Well , I should hope , in the first instance , to have for keeper an honest fellow like you. ” “ And you have me , my lord .
In his arms he held the child , whom no skill had been able to recall to life .
A glance , threatening and transient as lightning , replied to Raoul .
Hardly had he read the letter , when his wife entered .
Oh !
Although the Musketeer was not expected before one o ’ clock , the procurator ’ s wife had been on the watch ever since midday , reckoning that the heart , or perhaps the stomach , of her lover would bring him before his time .
Her ladies—that is to say Madame de Bregy , Mademoiselle de Beaumont , Madame de Motteville , and Socratine , her sister , so called on account of her sense—had just brought into her dressing-room the remains of the dinner , on which , according to her usual custom , she supped .
M. Coquenard saw him swallowing this wine undiluted , and sighed deeply .
Fatality .
“ And you say that you are ignorant of the contents of this letter ? ” “ I give you my word of honor , sir , ” said Dantès ; “ but what is the matter ?
It was cowardly , I confess , but it was not criminal. ” 0341m “ I understand—you allowed matters to take their course , that was all. ” “ Yes , sir , ” answered Caderousse ; “ and remorse preys on me night and day .
“ M .
You had friends , Albert ; break off their acquaintance .
There ’ s no second Constance in the world. ” On his return to the cathedral , D ’ Artagnan saw Bazin , who was conversing with the sacristan .
“ There ’ s not a moment to lose ; now take my horse to the nearest inn and conduct me to your vessel. ” “ But , ” asked the sailor , “ where are your companions ?
“ With monsieur. ” “ Monsieur has returned , then ? ” “ Of course , ” naively replied the servant .
Milady remained thoughtful and undecided for a moment ; then , as if appearing to have formed a resolution , she said , “ I have an enemy. ” “ You , madame ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , affecting surprise ; “ is that possible , my God ? —good and beautiful as you are ! ” “ A mortal enemy. ” “ Indeed ! ” “ An enemy who has insulted me so cruelly that between him and me it is war to the death .
D ’ Artagnan and Planchet followed the gentleman at a distance of five hundred paces .
“ And your two other friends ? ” he asked .
D ’ Artagnan refused ; but thinking the opportunity a good one , he begged him to have the diamond he put into his hand valued , as he wished to turn it into money .
You might have taken Lord Winter—who , ’ tis said , was your uncle—prisoner , but you preferred killing him ; ’ tis well ; we , that is , Monsieur du Vallon and I , could have killed our prisoners—we preferred taking them. ” Mordaunt ’ s very lips grew white with rage .
On rising , he went to his window , which opened on a terrace , having the sea in front , and at the back a pretty park bounded by a small forest .
It is the insect with black claws , and the awful word which I wish to retain in my imagination in all its purity and all its importance. ” “ Go then ; for in the course of two hours it will be dark , and you will not be able to see anything. ” “ _Ma foi ! _ you frighten me .
A presentiment instantly told D ’ Artagnan that this carriage contained the person who had appointed the rendezvous ; the young man was himself astonished to find his heart beat so violently .
“ My dear Grimaud , thou speakest seldom , but when thou dost , one must do thee justice—thy words are words of gold. ” Chapter XX .
But if he annoys you , this young fool— ” “ To be sure he does .
“ Are you hungry ? ” continued he .
“ Take out the horses quickly , and come up to me , ” said Andrea to his groom .
“ Yes .
At last he made his way through the mob , which was continually increasing and getting more and more turbulent , and reached the hotel .
I don ’ t care to be shot in a box. ” “ No , ” said Aramis , “ he has not seen us .
Time passes quickly when it is passed in attacks and defenses .
Allow me to introduce my friend , Baron de Château-Renaud , one of the few true gentlemen now to be found in France , and from whom I have just learned that you were a spectator of the races in the Champ-de-Mars , yesterday. ” Château-Renaud bowed to the countess .
Mme .
At length he advanced toward the group , the meaning of which he could not comprehend .
“ Ah , monsieur ! ” said she , “ you have saved me ; permit me to thank you. ” “ Madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I have only done what every gentleman would have done in my place ; you owe me no thanks. ” “ Oh , yes , monsieur , oh , yes ; and I hope to prove to you that you have not served an ingrate .
You know wine is a deceiver ; but I should say it was two lovers walking side by side , and hand in hand .
“ Hold , hold , hold ! ” said Athos , wit his quiet tone ; “ that throw of the dice is extraordinary .
We , at least , must keep close to monseigneur ; the rest of the start will rejoin us later .
He had stopped , like Raoul , at the Hotel of the Bell and Bottle , the best at Compiegne ; and had started again on his journey , saying that he should sleep at Noyon .
“ Listen to me , ” said the countess , “ and do not be so very headstrong .
He was thunderstruck .
Speak , speak ! ” “ Take this letter , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Monte Cristo drew out his watch .
So , preferring death to capture , I accomplished the most astonishing deeds , and which , more than once , showed me that the too great care we take of our bodies is the only obstacle to the success of those projects which require rapid decision , and vigorous and determined execution .
Grimaud tendered twenty guineas to the captain , and at nine o ’ clock in the morning , having a fair wind , our Frenchmen set foot on their native land .
The Office of the King ’ s Attorney Chapter 68 .
Bonacieux looked at the young man , restrained for a minute by a last hesitation ; but there was such an ardor in his eyes , such persuasion in his voice , that she felt herself constrained to confide in him .
The air and water were shining in the beams of the morning sun ; on the shore the sailors were sitting , chatting and laughing ; and at ten yards from them the boat was at anchor , undulating gracefully on the water .
The silence became almost painful when , by a violent effort , tearing himself from his pleasing reverie : “ Madame , ” said he at length , “ I pray you to excuse my emotion , which must astonish you who are only accustomed to the happiness I meet here ; but contentment is so new a sight to me , that I could never be weary of looking at yourself and your husband. ” “ We are very happy , monsieur , ” replied Julie ; “ but we have also known unhappiness , and few have ever undergone more bitter sufferings than ourselves. ” The count ’ s features displayed an expression of the most intense curiosity .
“ Come , come , sleepy head ; quick , the ladder ! ” “ But , ” said Bazin , yawning portentously , “ the ladder is still at the window. ” “ The other one , the gardener ’ s .
“ Beauchamp is a worthy fellow , ” said Monte Cristo , when the journalist was gone ; “ is he not , Albert ? ” “ Yes , and a sincere friend ; I love him devotedly .
Men in their senses do not quit their hotel in the Rue du Helder , their walk on the Boulevard de Gand , and the Café de Paris. ” It is of course understood that Albert resided in the aforesaid street , appeared every day on the fashionable walk , and dined frequently at the only restaurant where you can really dine , that is , if you are on good terms with its waiters .
‘ Major Cavalcanti , a worthy patrician of Lucca , a descendant of the Cavalcanti of Florence , ’ ” continued Monte Cristo , reading aloud , “ ‘ possessing an income of half a million. ’ ” Monte Cristo raised his eyes from the paper , and bowed .
There was a very simple means of satisfying himself whither Mme .
“ This is what you asked for , ” he said , “ and what I promised to give you. ” “ I thank you from the depths of my heart , ” said the young man , taking the spoon from the hands of Monte Cristo .
“ But the child—the child , sir ? ” repeated the agitated mother .
“ I ’ ve a great desire to drink the king ’ s health , ” said Athos .
You are going now to pay your court to her again , and if this time you succeed in pleasing her in your own name and with your own face , it will be much worse than before. ” Instinct made poor Kitty guess a part of what was to happen .
After a moment ’ s mournful silence , his heart overflowed , and he gave way to a flood of tears .
“ Tony , is your master sleeping ? ” said one of the two cavaliers to a servant who was lying in the outer compartment , which served as a kind of ante-room .
Well , as you please , I even gain something by it , for I no longer see that wicked smile of yours .
those who love me , follow me ! ” And he jumped on his horse and set off at full gallop , snuffing the fresh air in his triumph and shouting out , with an expression of face which it would be impossible to describe : “ Free !
Well , sir , the rupture of a blood-vessel on the lobe of the brain has destroyed all this , not in a day , not in an hour , but in a second .
Patrick , who knew Lord de Winter was in affairs of the service , and in relations of friendship with the duke , gave the preference to the one who came in his name .
On seeing the appointed signal , Groslow , who had at first crept behind one of the cannons planted on that spot , walked straight up to the gentlemen .
“ ’ Tis well , and may this money profit you !
“ The contract shall not be signed ! ” cried Morrel .
“ What I mean to say is this , sir , —that during the last fortnight unforeseen circumstances have occurred—— ” “ Excuse me , ” said Morcerf , “ but is it a play we are acting ? ” “ A play ? ” “ Yes , for it is like one ; pray let us come more to the point , and endeavor thoroughly to understand each other. ” “ That is quite my desire. ” “ You have seen M. de Monte Cristo have you not ? ” “ I see him very often , ” said Danglars , drawing himself up ; “ he is a particular friend of mine. ” “ Well , in one of your late conversations with him , you said that I appeared to be forgetful and irresolute concerning this marriage , did you not ? ” “ I did say so. ” “ Well , here I am , proving at once that I am really neither the one nor the other , by entreating you to keep your promise on that score. ” Danglars did not answer .
thou hast prospered and grown stout ! ” and D ’ Artagnan could not restrain his astonishment at the change good fortune had produced on the once famished one .
The prince assigned the Count de Guiche to his father and kept Bragelonne near his own person ; but the two young men sought the privilege of passing the night together and it was accorded them .
“ Oh , send for someone to whom I can denounce the wretch ! ” “ Shall I write your deposition ?
Is there any difficulty in the way ? ” “ No. ” replied the captain , “ but we must warn your excellency that the island is an infected port. ” “ What do you mean ? ” “ Monte Cristo although uninhabited , yet serves occasionally as a refuge for the smugglers and pirates who come from Corsica , Sardinia , and Africa , and if it becomes known that we have been there , we shall have to perform quarantine for six days on our return to Leghorn. ” “ The deuce !
Dantès inserted the sharp end of the pickaxe between the coffer and the lid , and pressing with all his force on the handle , burst open the fastenings .
I will even venture to say that I am certain M. de Buckingham will be prevented from setting out by some great event .
“ It is no doubt the same , ” said he .
If , on the contrary , he refuses to do so , it will then be quite time enough to admit two strangers into your secret. ” “ They will not be strangers , they will be friends. ” “ Ah , but the friends of today are the enemies of tomorrow ; Beauchamp , for instance. ” “ So you recommend—— ” “ I recommend you to be prudent. ” “ Then you advise me to go alone to Beauchamp ? ” “ I do , and I will tell you why .
And this all knew so well that it was a double victory for the court , a victory at home and abroad ; so that even when the young king learned the news he exclaimed , “ Ah , gentlemen of the parliament , we shall see what you will say now ! ” Upon which the queen had pressed the royal child to her heart , whose haughty and unruly sentiments were in such harmony with her own .
I only hope the mischief will fall upon the head of whoever wrought it. ” “ You don ’ t mention those who aided and abetted the deed , ” said Caderousse .
In fact , a moment later M. Morrel appeared and was saluted with an enthusiastic burst of applause from the crew of the _Pharaon_ , who hailed the visit of the shipowner as a sure indication that the man whose wedding feast he thus delighted to honor would ere long be first in command of the ship ; and as Dantès was universally beloved on board his vessel , the sailors put no restraint on their tumultuous joy at finding that the opinion and choice of their superiors so exactly coincided with their own .
That ’ s his province. ” “ Ay , ay ! ” said Porthos ; “ pass the pen to Aramis , who writes theses in Latin. ” “ Well , so be it , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ In the first instance to Marseilles , madame. ” “ To Marseilles ! ” exclaimed the young couple .
If you can , my dear D ’ Artagnan , answer for Mademoiselle— ” “ Oh , monsieur , be assured that I shall be entirely devoted to the person who will give me the means of quitting Paris. ” “ Then , ” said Aramis , “ this falls out very well. ” He placed himself at the table and wrote a little note which he sealed with a ring , and gave the billet to Kitty .
how few to-day exist ! ” “ Plague on ’ t , my lord , have you brought me here to get my horoscope out of me ? ” “ No ; I only brought you here to ask you , ” returned Mazarin , smiling , “ if you have taken any particular notice of our lieutenant of musketeers ? ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ?
on ! ” They all set off , swift as the wind .
Ah !
Come ; reflect , and decide. ” “ Your goodness confounds me , monseigneur , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ and I am conscious of a greatness of soul in your Eminence that makes me mean as an earthworm ; but since Monseigneur permits me to speak freely— ” D ’ Artagnan paused .
“ Come in , come in , ” said Morrel , “ for I presume you are all at the door. ” Scarcely had he uttered those words when Madame Morrel entered weeping bitterly .
I can scarcely contain myself at the bare idea .
“ Yet , ” continued the count , becoming each moment more absorbed in the anticipation of the dreadful sacrifice for the morrow , which Mercédès had accepted , “ yet , it is impossible that so noble-minded a woman should thus through selfishness consent to my death when I am in the prime of life and strength ; it is impossible that she can carry to such a point maternal love , or rather delirium .
Milady reflected that the more people she had around her the more she would have to work upon , and Lord de Winter would redouble his watch .
Try and find a seat—there is one by that geranium , which is the only thing in the room to remind me that there are other leaves in the world besides leaves of paper. ” “ Beauchamp , ” said Albert , “ it is of your journal that I come to speak. ” “ Indeed ?
This amusement lasted from the Barriere des Sergens to the place of Notre Dame , and Friquet found in it very real enjoyment ; but when at last the regiment separated , penetrated the heart of the city and placed itself at the extremity of the Rue Saint Christophe , near the Rue Cocatrix , in which Broussel lived , then Friquet remembered that he had not had breakfast ; and after thinking in which direction he had better turn his steps in order to accomplish this important act of the day , he reflected deeply and decided that Councillor Broussel should bear the cost of this repast .
“ But first , let Haydée be informed that I have returned. ” “ Here I am , ” said the young girl , who at the sound of the carriage had run downstairs and whose face was radiant with joy at seeing the count return safely .
Set out , therefore , in a week , with your suite , and go to the Hotel de la Chevrette , Rue Tiquetonne , and there await me. ” “ That ’ s agreed , ” said Porthos .
“ Impossible !
At six o ’ clock Villefort retired to his study , at eight M. d ’ Avrigny himself arrived , bringing the night draught prepared for the young girl , and then M. Noirtier was carried away .
That ’ s more time than we want .
You are a provident person , I see. ” “ Why , you see , no one knows what may happen .
In anticipation of some ambuscade in each of these little woods the tutor placed his two servants at the head of the band , thus forming the advance guard .
and why in this solemn drawing-room when the study is so comfortable ? ” “ I quite understand why you ask , sir , ” said Eugénie , making a sign that her father might be seated , “ and in fact your two questions suggest fully the theme of our conversation .
Arriving before the inn at which his master and himself had made such an enormous repast , he approached Athos and said , showing him the airhole of the cellar : “ Sausages ! ” Athos began to laugh , for this juvenile escapade of his appeared to be as amusing as if some one had related it of another person .
It is he who has raised all this revolt. ” “ The more reason , ” said Mazarin ; “ if he has raised it he can put it down. ” “ And hold , madame , ” suggested Comminges , who was near a window , out of which he could see ; “ hold , the moment is a happy one , for there he is now , giving his blessing in the square of the Palais Royal. ” The queen sprang to the window .
To donate , please visit : www.gutenberg.org/donate .
But this annoys you ; let us change the subject .
The marines were removed .
The letter from the executioner ’ s assistant satisfied the master carpenter that those were the men he expected .
Accordingly , D ’ Artagnan , on awaking , found his breakfast waiting for him .
He was not , however , a good sleeper .
They want food already .
Noirtier saw him seat himself with an appearance of perfect indifference , at the same time giving a side look at Valentine , which made her understand that she also was to remain in the room .
“ True , monsieur , ” said Mousqueton ; “ and five hundred feet from here is a small hunting-house. ” “ Mousqueton , thy pistols , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Marseilles—The Arrival Chapter 2 .
“ Are the English expected by land , or do the Musketeers consider themselves superior officers ? ” “ Monseigneur , ” replied Athos , for amid the general fright he alone had preserved the noble calmness and coolness that never forsook him , “ Monseigneur , the Musketeers , when they are not on duty , or when their duty is over , drink and play at dice , and they are certainly superior officers to their lackeys. ” “ Lackeys ? ” grumbled the cardinal .
“ You excel us all. ” Athos smiled with ineffable pleasure .
M. de Tréville received him as if he had seen him that same morning ; only , when pressing his hand a little more warmly than usual , he informed him that the company of Dessessart was on duty at the Louvre , and that he might repair at once to his post .
The chief approached , and it was indeed Planchet ; D ’ Artagnan had recognized the voice of his old servant .
This caused so rapid and complete a diversion from the attack that D ’ Artagnan ’ s adversary , while the latter turned round to face this shower of blows , sheathed his sword with the same precision , and instead of an actor , which he had nearly been , became a spectator of the fight—a part in which he acquitted himself with his usual impassiveness , muttering , nevertheless , “ A plague upon these Gascons !
“ ‘ Quick ! ’ said a voice at the end of the gallery .
At the same moment the faint report of a gun was heard .
The girl shuddered to the heart but did not reply .
If I obtain the situation I desire , I shall owe it to M. Morrel .
“ All these circumstances did not strike me as painfully at the time as they have since done ; in fact , all that had happened ( with the exception of the story of the diamond , which certainly did wear an air of improbability ) , appeared natural enough , and called for neither apprehension nor mistrust ; but , worn out as I was with fatigue , and fully purposing to proceed onwards directly the tempest abated , I determined to obtain a few hours ’ sleep .
“ Let us hope , my child , ” cried the marquis , “ that M. de Villefort may prove the moral and political physician of this province ; if so , he will have achieved a noble work. ” “ And one which will go far to efface the recollection of his father ’ s conduct , ” added the incorrigible marquise .
de Boville , Receiver-General of the charities. ” “ _Ma foi_ , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I think I arrived just in time to obtain your signatures , or they would have been disputed with me. ” Danglars again became pale , and hastened to conduct the count out .
“ Almost an impossibility , ” replied the major .
The heart of the young Gascon beat as if it would burst through his side—not from fear , God be thanked , he had not the shade of it , but with emulation ; he fought like a furious tiger , turning ten times round his adversary , and changing his ground and his guard twenty times .
“ Carmela wished to form a quadrille , but there was one lady wanting .
“ Follow me , Mr. Commissary ! ” said the brigadier ; “ tread in my steps. ” “ Wait an instant , ” said the host ; “ Number 3 has two staircases , —inside and outside. ” “ Good , ” said the brigadier .
I am almost inclined to ask you , as though you had experienced death , ‘ is it painful to die ? ’ ” Monte Cristo looked upon Morrel with indescribable tenderness .
D ’ Artagnan declined all others , being unwilling to take the first chance from those who had the priority .
de Morcerf , ” continued Beauchamp , “ looked at this woman with surprise and terror .
“ Approach , gentlemen , ” said Albert ; “ I wish you not to lose one word of what I am about to have the honor of saying to the Count of Monte Cristo , for it must be repeated by you to all who will listen to it , strange as it may appear to you. ” “ Proceed , sir , ” said the count .
Diavolaccio advanced amidst the most profound silence , and laid Rita at the captain ’ s feet .
Come , now , I have hopes of obtaining what I have been for years endeavoring to persuade the marquise to promise ; namely , a perfect amnesty and forgetfulness of the past. ” “ With all my heart , ” replied the marquise ; “ let the past be forever forgotten .
D ’ Artagnan , I am your prisoner—treat me as such. ” “ Ah !
The second grotto was lower and more gloomy than the first ; the air that could only enter by the newly formed opening had the mephitic smell Dantès was surprised not to find in the outer cavern .
Come , tell me his name ! ” “ Remember that his name is all my secret. ” “ Yet I must know his name. ” “ Yes , you must ; see what confidence I have in you ! ” “ You overwhelm me with joy .
“ You can not imagine , mother , how beautiful I think you ! ” said the young man , impressed with a profound feeling of filial love .
On seeing him D ’ Artagnan could hardly suppress an exclamation of surprise .
0147m “ Who could know that I was here already ? ” said the young man .
In this place were together 60,000 pouches and 200 barrels ; the pouches contained 25,000,000 of money in gold , and the barrels were filled with 30,000 pounds of gunpowder .
“ Yes , and I will tell you .
The pope heaped attentions upon Rospigliosi and Spada , conferred upon them the insignia of the cardinalate , and induced them to arrange their affairs and take up their residence at Rome .
The prisoners , in their expressive language , have named it the “ Lions ’ Den , ” probably because the captives possess teeth which frequently gnaw the bars , and sometimes the keepers also .
“ No ; that is sufficient ; a man can pass through that. ” Porthos tried , and passed the upper portion of his body through .
you will be deceived just the same , ” said Athos , who was an optimist when things were concerned , and a pessimist when men were in question .
I myself felt a strange kind of fascination at the sight of all this gold and all these bank-notes ; it seemed to me that I was in a dream , and , as it always happens in a dream , I felt myself riveted to the spot .
The Evening of the Betrothal Villefort had , as we have said , hastened back to Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s in the Place du Grand Cours , and on entering the house found that the guests whom he had left at table were taking coffee in the salon .
Friquet had a quick eye and a fine ear .
“ What ’ s the manner ? ” cried Athos .
Twenty-four years ago I returned , proud and joyful , to my country .
“ Decidedly , you are a brave fellow , ” said Athos , pressing the young man ’ s hand .
I reached the lower door .
In the evening , Julie told her mother , that although he was apparently so calm , she had noticed that her father ’ s heart beat violently .
His eyes took a strange expression , and with the step of a tiger-cat he advanced toward the hedge ; but he had not been able to catch more than a few vague syllables without any positive sense , when a sonorous and short cry made him start , and attracted the attention of the Musketeers .
Grimaud made a sign in the affirmative .
Will he be at home at eight o ’ clock this evening ? ” “ Doubtless , unless he is at work , which is the same as if he were out. ” “ I will come again at that time , ” replied the visitor , who then retired .
At last , when Pistache was sufficiently well trained , Monsieur de Beaufort invited the governor and officers of Vincennes to attend a representation which he was going to have in his apartment .
For France , were I to specify my wishes , I should have too much .
No , D ’ Artagnan considered that things are never well done when they are not reserved to their proper time .
This time Maximilian was the first to arrive .
And he is very rich. ” “ I am not so sure of that. ” “ And yet you said he had money. ” “ Fifty thousand livres—a mere trifle. ” “ He is well educated. ” “ Hem , ” said Monte Cristo in his turn .
Oh , Heaven forbid !
The interests of the French crown , endangered at this moment , are to discountenance rebellion in a neighboring nation .
What can have become of her , then ? ” “ We shall know , be assured .
“ My dear fellow , are you really on such good terms with her as to venture to take me to her box ? ” “ Why , I have only had the honor of being in her society and conversing with her three or four times in my life ; but you know that even such an acquaintance as that might warrant my doing what you ask. ” At that instant , the countess perceived Franz , and graciously waved her hand to him , to which he replied by a respectful inclination of the head .
“ Go , then , ” said the duke , “ and return as soon as possible. ” “ Does your highness wish to take revenge for the game of tennis yesterday ? ” Grimaud intimated by a scarcely perceptible nod that he should consent .
Fontrailles , his aide-de-camp , had an arm broken ; his horse had received a bullet in his neck and he had difficulty in controlling him , maddened by pain .
“ Ah , you philosophize , ” replied Villefort , after a moment ’ s silence , during which , like a wrestler who encounters a powerful opponent , he took breath ; “ well , sir , really , if , like you , I had nothing else to do , I should seek a more amusing occupation. ” “ Why , in truth , sir , ” was Monte Cristo ’ s reply , “ man is but an ugly caterpillar for him who studies him through a solar microscope ; but you said , I think , that I had nothing else to do .
They explained what had occurred that evening .
Whilst this went on , Porthos arrived with a very cross look on his face , and was astonished to find the lieutenant resigned and Mousqueton almost merry .
“ I loved Madame Bonacieux with my heart , while I only love Milady with my head , ” said he .
Our holy father , the pope , has made him a knight of Jesus Christ for the services he rendered to the Christians in the East ; he has five or six rings as testimonials from Eastern monarchs of his services. ” “ Does he wear them ? ” “ No , but he is proud of them ; he is better pleased with rewards given to the benefactors of man than to his destroyers. ” “ He is a Quaker then ? ” “ Exactly , he is a Quaker , with the exception of the peculiar dress. ” “ Has he any friends ? ” “ Yes , everyone who knows him is his friend. ” “ But has he any enemies ? ” “ One only. ” “ What is his name ? ” “ Lord Wilmore. ” “ Where is he ? ” “ He is in Paris just now. ” “ Can he give me any particulars ? ” “ Important ones ; he was in India with Zaccone. ” “ Do you know his abode ? ” “ It ’ s somewhere in the Chaussée d ’ Antin ; but I know neither the street nor the number. ” 30289m “ Are you at variance with the Englishman ? ” “ I love Zaccone , and he hates him ; we are consequently not friends. ” “ Do you think the Count of Monte Cristo had ever been in France before he made this visit to Paris ? ” “ To that question I can answer positively ; no , sir , he had not , because he applied to me six months ago for the particulars he required , and as I did not know when I might again come to Paris , I recommended M. Cavalcanti to him. ” “ Andrea ? ” “ No , Bartolomeo , his father. ” “ Now , sir , I have but one question more to ask , and I charge you , in the name of honor , of humanity , and of religion , to answer me candidly. ” “ What is it , sir ? ” “ Do you know with what design M. de Monte Cristo purchased a house at Auteuil ? ” “ Certainly , for he told me. ” “ What is it , sir ? ” “ To make a lunatic asylum of it , similar to that founded by the Count of Pisani at Palermo .
Their return was quite an event , but as they entered together , all uneasiness on Albert ’ s account ceased instantly .
They were influenced by hatred , by avarice , and by self-love ; but I was base , and for want of courage acted against my judgment .
“ Everything is paid , ” replied the host , “ and liberally .
“ He has given you some little writing for me—the least bit of paper which may show that you come in his name .
He looked around ; he was in a court surrounded by high walls ; he heard the measured tread of sentinels , and as they passed before the light he saw the barrels of their muskets shine .
That we are not able to say ; but at all events , we have seen , by the anterior developments of this story , that Buckingham had the advantage over him , and in two or three circumstances , particularly that of the diamond studs , had , thanks to the devotedness of the three Musketeers and the courage and conduct of D ’ Artagnan , cruelly mystified him .
At the door of her apartment the baroness met Mademoiselle Cornélie , her confidential maid .
“ Oh , I am sure of it ; we talked of you an hour after you left us the other day .
Mercédès looked pleased and gratified , while Fernand grasped the handle of his knife with a convulsive clutch .
“ Ah ! ” said Porthos , “ what a fearful day , my dear D ’ Artagnan ! ” “ What !
Franz thought that he came to hear his dinner praised , and began accordingly , but at the first words he was interrupted .
“ What have they done to you ? ” “ They—did you not see what they did ? ” “ No. ” “ They laughed when we swore that we had done our duty in England .
“ Yes , ” said he , “ yes , that would flatter me very much ; but I should not have time enough to enjoy the distinction .
“ Look at my hat and cloak. ” And D ’ Artagnan displayed four gunshot holes in his cloak and two in his beaver .
And if I have any counsel to give , it is , always lose ! ” “ She seemed to love me so ! ” “ She _seemed_ , did she ? ” “ Oh , she _did_ love me ! ” “ You child , why , there is not a man who has not believed , as you do , that his mistress loved him , and there lives not a man who has not been deceived by his mistress. ” “ Except you , Athos , who never had one. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said Athos , after a moment ’ s silence , “ that ’ s true !
From behind the door a human figure appeared , but the girl was too familiar with such apparitions to be alarmed , and therefore only stared , hoping to recognize Morrel .
Either we shall be attacked , or not .
Only by a single line this evening at my house let me know the arms and the hour ; I do not like to be kept waiting. ” “ Pistols , then , at eight o ’ clock , in the Bois de Vincennes , ” said Beauchamp , quite disconcerted , not knowing if he was dealing with an arrogant braggadocio or a supernatural being .
After casting a rapid glance around him , in order to assure himself that he was unobserved , he entered by the small gate , and , carefully closing and securing it after him , proceeded with a hurried step towards the barrier .
“ I would rather do so , ” was Edmond ’ s reply , “ than suffer the inexpressible agonies which the slightest movement causes me. ” The patron turned towards his vessel , which was rolling on the swell in the little harbor , and , with sails partly set , would be ready for sea when her toilet should be completed .
When the boat was within twenty paces of the shore , the man on the beach , who carried a carbine , presented arms after the manner of a sentinel , and cried , “ Who comes there ? ” in Sardinian .
“ Is this the decanter you spoke of ? ” asked d ’ Avrigny .
But listen , Porthos : though Monsieur Mordaunt was a man not to be despised , Mazarin is not less strong than he , and we shall not easily succeed in drowning him .
“ Very well , sir , ” said Comminges , “ you shall hear of this anon. ” “ And you of me , sir , ” said Louvieres ; “ and we shall see then who can speak the loudest. ” Friquet and Nanette continued to shout ; the cries , the noise of the shot and the intoxicating smell of powder produced their usual maddening effects .
Revolving all this in her mind , she cast her eyes around her , and arranged the topography of the garden in her head .
When he is tired , he will perhaps tell us that he has had enough of it. ” But the stranger knew not the headstrong personage he had to do with ; D ’ Artagnan was not the man ever to cry for quarter .
“ Well , what is the matter , my dear ? ” asked the gentleman whose name the lady ’ s agitation revealed ; “ tell me what is the matter. ” “ Oh , Lucien , can I confide in you ? ” “ Of course , you know you can do so .
Bonacieux , shuddering .
Chapter LII .
An officer who saw me , with a jealous eye , reading the _Lives of the Saints_ to the mistress of the house , entered suddenly and without being announced .
Monsieur Albert appears to me quite innocent of the treason charged against the general. ” “ Excuse me , ” said the implacable young girl , “ Monsieur Albert claims and well deserves his share .
40306m VOLUME FIVE 50009m 50011m 50019m Chapter 96 .
I have drawn nine hundred thousand francs , you therefore still owe me five millions and a hundred thousand francs .
Here ’ s to our colonel , and let him know that we are always at his commands as far as London and farther. ” And as D ’ Artagnan , as he spoke , looked at Harrison , the colonel imagined the toast was for himself .
Oh , my dear D ’ Artagnan , ” resumed Aramis , giving to his voice a slight tone of bitterness , “ trust me !
The wind was chilly and the jetty was deserted , as he approached it ; but he had no sooner landed than he heard a noise of horses galloping upon the paved road .
Now , as these street Arabs of Rome , more fortunate than those of Paris , understand every language , more especially the French , they heard the traveller order an apartment , a dinner , and finally inquire the way to the house of Thomson & French .
Both went into the bedroom , and as the door of communication remained open , D ’ Artagnan could hear Milady for some time scolding her maid .
“ Pardon me , I had no intention of committing an indiscretion. ” “ Indiscretion , —oh , you make us happy by giving us an excuse for expatiating on this subject .
Bring six of them. ” “ Why , this man is a cask ! ” said the host , aside .
The delighted recipients of these munificent gifts would gladly have poured out their thanks to their generous benefactor , but they had seen him , upon quitting the hut , merely give some orders to a sailor , and then springing lightly on horseback , leave Marseilles by the Porte d ’ Aix .
“ What were you doing in the battle , my friend ? ” inquired Athos of the youth ; “ ’ twas not your right place , I think , as you were not equipped for an engagement ! ” “ I had no intention of fighting to-day , sir ; I was charged , indeed , with a mission to the cardinal and had set out for Rueil , when , seeing Monsieur de Chatillon charge , an invincible desire possessed me to charge at his side .
International donations are gratefully accepted , but we can not make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States .
Do you still feel the same feverish impatience of grief which made you start like a wounded lion ?
“ But , never mind , he is a neighbor who has done us a service on a time , so he ’ s welcome. ” As Edmond paused , the black and bearded head of Caderousse appeared at the door .
Planchet * , whom he had sent home two hours before from the Hôtel de Ville , telling him to sit up for him , opened the door for him .
His agitated features presented the appearance of pale and hideous terror .
He carried the strictness of this order so far as to detain in England the ambassadors of Denmark , who had taken their leave , and the regular ambassador of Holland , who was to take back to the port of Flushing the Indian merchantmen of which Charles I. had made restitution to the United Provinces .
All this time the soldiers were calling out , “ Stop !
“ Ah , my dear doctor , ” said the procureur , “ Heaven declares itself against my house !
“ I tell you to hope .
She doubtless intended giving him an agreeable surprise ; but , strange to say , this portrait seemed to displease my father , and the value of the picture , which is , as you see , one of the best works of Léopold Robert , could not overcome his dislike to it .
“ Justice is done , ” said Porthos , wiping his forehead .
“ I ’ faith , colonel , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ we are very grateful for your gracious invitation ; for without you we ran the risk of going without dinner , as we have without breakfast .
This portion of the napkin was marked with half a baron ’ s crown , and the letter H. ” “ Truly , truly , ” said Madame Danglars , “ all my linen is marked thus ; Monsieur de Nargonne was a baron , and my name is Hermine .
The lackeys on their part , like the coursers of Hippolytus , shared the sadness of their masters .
There remained in the banker ’ s house only Danglars , closeted in his study , and making his statement to the officer of gendarmes ; Madame Danglars , terrified , in the boudoir with which we are acquainted ; and Eugénie , who with haughty air and disdainful lip had retired to her room with her inseparable companion , Mademoiselle Louise d ’ Armilly .
Luigi Vampa ’ s Bill of Fare Chapter 116 .
I may as well blow my brains out , and all will be over. ” “ That ’ s the last folly to be committed , ” said Athos , “ seeing it is the only one for which there is no remedy. ” “ But I can never escape , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ with such enemies .
“ And with whom ? ” “ With whom can it be , if not the Duke of— ” “ The Duke of— ” “ Yes , monsieur , ” replied the citizen , giving a still fainter intonation to his voice .
“ Swear , then , ” said Villefort , joining the hands of Morrel and d ’ Avrigny , “ swear that you will spare the honor of my house , and leave me to avenge my child. ” D ’ Avrigny turned round and uttered a very feeble “ Yes , ” but Morrel , disengaging his hand , rushed to the bed , and after having pressed the cold lips of Valentine with his own , hurriedly left , uttering a long , deep groan of despair and anguish .
“ Really , madame , ” he said , “ did I alarm you much ? ” “ Oh , no , sir , ” she answered ; “ but you know , things impress us differently , according to the mood of our minds. ” Villefort forced a laugh .
The Count of Morcerf was not a person to excite either interest or curiosity in a place of public amusement ; his presence , therefore , was wholly unnoticed , save by the occupants of the box in which he had just seated himself .
you scoundrel ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , taking the man for a thief and seizing his sword .
“ It is late , and the governor is asleep .
The anger which fired the eyes of the Musketeer , in spite of his efforts to suppress it , terrified his sensitive inamorata .
Fresh sharpened by his victory , full of hopes of future favor , he was resolved not to recoil a step .
It was just before this that Grimaud had perceived the two men seated together .
Everyone had just seen it pass ; it was only five hundred , two hundred , one hundred steps in advance ; at length they reached it , but it was not the friend .
And who is the Judas who has concluded this infamous bargain ? ” “ Lord Leven. ” “ Are you certain of it , sir ? ” “ I heard it with my own ears. ” The king sighed deeply , as if his heart would break , and then buried his face in his hands .
I have told you that without being able to regain the complete exercise of my faculties , I retained the sense of my danger .
It will then be said of me that I died for the king ; so that I shall have performed my duty without the expense of an outfit. ” Porthos continued to walk about with his hands behind him , tossing his head and repeating , “ I shall follow up on my idea. ” Aramis , anxious and negligently dressed , said nothing .
Their days were passed in endeavoring to catch all that was said , in observing the proceeding of the cardinal , and in looking out for all the couriers who arrived .
De Guiche , who was young and impulsive , said to Raoul , “ Here we are , three masters and three servants .
A step , a gesture , a word , on your part , denoting an effort to escape , and you are to be fired upon .
“ Come in , come in , Monsieur Porthos ! ” The name of Porthos produced its effect upon the clerks , who began to laugh ; but Porthos turned sharply round , and every countenance quickly recovered its gravity .
“ Corpo di Dio !
“ My brother , ” said she , as she placed his knapsack on his shoulders , “ be careful of yourself , for if you are killed , I shall be alone in the world. ” These words carried a ray of hope into Fernand ’ s heart .
“ Why did you leave the closet , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” asked the cardinal .
As to the Bastile , they are not there , though the Bastile is especially for the Frondeurs .
Too long a wait—too long. ” “ But who will say your excellency has been to Monte Cristo ? ” “ Oh , I shall not , ” cried Franz .
“ Hold , Athos , ” said Aramis , “ perhaps there is yet time .
“ Too late by a minute ! ” cried he , “ too late by a minute !
If he were afterwards to marry Mademoiselle Danglars , you would accuse me of intrigue , and would be challenging me , —besides , I may not be there myself. ” “ Where ? ” “ At your ball. ” “ Why should you not be there ? ” “ Because you have not yet invited me. ” “ But I come expressly for that purpose. ” “ You are very kind , but I may be prevented. ” “ If I tell you one thing , you will be so amiable as to set aside all impediments. ” “ Tell me what it is. ” “ My mother begs you to come. ” “ The Comtesse de Morcerf ? ” said Monte Cristo , starting .
He approached La Ramee and showing him the crawfish hung up by the thread : “ Cardinal , ” he said .
“ What do you tell me ? ” “ Truth , my friend .
You will do much better to open the window and let down some bread , a chicken and a bottle of wine to your friend Planchet , who has been this last hour killing himself clapping his hands. ” Planchet , in fact , had bedded and fed his horses , and then coming back under the window had repeated two or three times the signal agreed upon .
“ Now you are rich , ” said Monte Cristo .
I , who have a seraglio at Cairo , one at Smyrna , and one at Constantinople , preside at a wedding ? —never ! ” “ Then you refuse me ? ” “ Decidedly ; and were you my son or my brother I would refuse you in the same way. ” “ But what must be done ? ” said Andrea , disappointed .
I hope that my frankness at least will make you my friend ; for you are the only young man to whom I have hitherto spoken as I have done to you. ” Tréville said to himself : “ If the cardinal has set this young fox upon me , he will certainly not have failed—he , who knows how bitterly I execrate him—to tell his spy that the best means of making his court to me is to rail at him .
“ Exceedingly , ” replied Franz .
Are you fond of traveling ? ” “ My life has been passed on the high road. ” “ Would anything retain you particularly in Paris ? ” “ Nothing but an order from a superior would retain me in Paris. ” “ Very well .
“ With one of the clamps of my bedstead ; and this very tool has sufficed me to hollow out the road by which I came hither , a distance of about fifty feet. ” “ Fifty feet ! ” responded Dantès , almost terrified .
And thou hast left him noble , honored , powerful , for the ruin of us all ! ” “ God abandons him who abandons himself , ” said Milady .
It must have been for his hide , for , _certes_ , the carcass is not worth eighteen livres .
“ What is the day of the month ? ” asked he of Jacopo , who sat down beside him .
Thence , introduced into a half-subterranean gallery , he became , on the part of those who had brought him , the object of the grossest insults and the harshest treatment .
Not only was the first gendarme still there , but the young man now perceived a second yellow , blue , and white uniform at the foot of the staircase , the only one by which he could descend , while a third , on horseback , holding a musket in his fist , was posted as a sentinel at the great street-door which alone afforded the means of egress .
One , however , fell at the duke ’ s feet , and seeing that it was intended for him , he put it into his pocket .
“ No , no , ” said he .
I was concealed by a column , and might witness the whole of the terrible scene which was about to take place .
And you ? ” “ Hang it ! ” said Porthos , a little perplexed between the two , “ I suppose , as I came with you , I must go away with you .
Edmond then cast his eyes scrutinizingly at the agitated and embarrassed Mercédès , and then again on the gloomy and menacing Fernand .
“ Mercédès seized Fernand ’ s hands with a transport which he took for love , but which was only joy at being no longer alone in the world , and seeing at last a friend , after long hours of solitary sorrow .
He didn ’ t predict the future , he knew the past—often a more dangerous thing. ” Mazarin nodded an assent , but wishing to know what this prediction was , about which they disputed , he remained in the same place .
If you know , why don ’ t you tell ? ” “ She is under the big chestnut-tree , ” replied the spoiled brat , as he gave , in spite of his mother ’ s commands , live flies to the parrot , which seemed keenly to relish such fare .
A groom was rubbing them down ; near them were saddles and bridles .
the king ’ s authority will put all this to rights. ” “ Was it to tell me that , madame , ” coldly replied Gondy , “ that your majesty admitted me to the honor of entering your presence ? ” “ No , my dear coadjutor , ” said Mazarin ; “ it was to ask your advice in the unhappy dilemma in which we find ourselves. ” “ Is it true , ” asked Gondy , feigning astonishment , “ that her majesty summoned me to ask for my opinion ? ” “ Yes , ” said the queen , “ it is requested. ” The coadjutor bowed .
Duc d ’ Harcourt , Fontrailles , and the others escaped ; De Rieux was inclined to do likewise , but I told him they wouldn ’ t look for us where we were .
And why not ? ” “ Because you will look into yourself , and you will do justice to the lady. ” “ I should do her justice by sending her to Tyburn , ” said Buckingham .
“ Come , then , and take it , friend , ” said the Gascon .
“ I once possessed piety , innocence , and love , the three ingredients of the happiness of angels , and now what am I ? ” Monte Cristo approached her , and silently took her hand .
“ I always said that D ’ Artagnan had the longest head of the four , ” said Athos , who , having uttered his opinion , to which D ’ Artagnan replied with a bow , immediately resumed his accustomed silence .
A terrible inclination seized D ’ Artagnan to grasp the mercer by the throat and strangle him ; but , as we have said , he was a very prudent youth , and he restrained himself .
His heart failed him .
Read that , ” said he , “ when I am gone , that you may not be witness of my anger. ” While the count picked up the paper he put spurs to his horse , which leaped in astonishment at such an unusual stimulus , and shot away with the rapidity of an arrow .
Monsieur d ’ Arminges , who was at the door , perceived his hesitation .
From this phrase , “ D ’ Artagnan awakened Planchet , ” the reader must not suppose it was night , or that day was hardly come .
As you have several times since declared yourself the friend of that person , he thinks it his duty to respond to that friendship by sending you important information .
Cromwell had two or three of these retreats in London , unknown except to the most intimate of his friends .
He found the cardinal dressed as an officer , and he looked very well in that costume , which , as we have already said , he wore elegantly ; only he was very pale and trembled slightly .
“ In that case , let there be no more question of what ’ s past , and let Aramis resume the letter from his cousin where the cardinal interrupted him. ” Aramis drew the letter from his pocket ; the three friends surrounded him , and the three lackeys grouped themselves again near the wine jar .
“ What ! ” cried Aramis and Athos , “ what !
Then resting his foot on a small ledge he made a sign to show all was right .
“ And this room ? ” he asked , pointing to the captain ’ s cabin .
“ I am at quite a loss how to answer you , I admit , ” said Mme .
if he were minister and I were his D ’ Artagnan , instead of belonging to that beast of a Mazarin , mordieu !
Thank God , we can keep a secret. ” The cardinal fixed his piercing eyes on this courageous speaker .
“ Oh ? ” said Caderousse , thunderstruck , “ but for that black hair , I should say you were the Englishman , Lord Wilmore. ” “ I am neither the Abbé Busoni nor Lord Wilmore , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ think again , —do you not recollect me ? ” There was a magic effect in the count ’ s words , which once more revived the exhausted powers of the miserable man .
Is anyone ill in the house ? ” The eyes of Noirtier seemed as though they would start from their sockets .
He remained on the bench , with his back leaning against the wall and his hands hanging down , exactly on the spot where the guards placed him .
I kept the third for myself , and I had it hollowed out , which reduced its value , but rendered it more commodious for the purpose I intended. ” Everyone looked at Monte Cristo with astonishment ; he spoke with so much simplicity that it was evident he spoke the truth , or that he was mad .
I have reflected , and I can not , must not be guilty of such a sin. ” “ Ah , you have reflected ! ” said the prisoner , sitting down in her armchair , with a smile of disdain ; “ and I also have reflected. ” “ Upon what ? ” “ That I can have nothing to say to a man who does not keep his word. ” “ Oh , my God ! ” murmured Felton .
remained alone , and turning his eyes on his half-opened Horace , muttered : “ _Justum et tenacem propositi virum_. ” M. de Blacas returned as speedily as he had departed , but in the antechamber he was forced to appeal to the king ’ s authority .
Toward six o ’ clock D ’ Artagnan awoke with that uncomfortable feeling which generally accompanies the break of day after a bad night .
“ In the midst of one of these swoons I heard the door open .
_Pardieu_ , Beauchamp , mine shall be a splendid funeral ! ” “ When such resolutions are made , Albert , they should be promptly executed .
My wife and child shall escape from this gulf , carrying treasures with them ; she will live and may yet be happy , since her child , in whom all her love is centred , will be with her .
He had scarcely done so before the door opened , and the jailer saw the prisoner seated as usual on the side of his bed .
The ball fired by Porthos ’ s foe went through the throat of his horse , which fell , groaning .
Chapter 108 .
The fourth and last side of your cell faces on—faces on—stop a minute , now where does it face ? ” The wall of which he spoke was the one in which was fixed the loophole by which light was admitted to the chamber .
I looked upon myself as another Judith ; I gathered myself up , my knife in my hand , and when I saw him near me , stretching out his arms to find his victim , then , with the last cry of agony and despair , I struck him in the middle of his breast .
Grandpapa says it is a panacea. ” Valentine smiled , but it was evident that she suffered .
Cocles opened the gate , and Baptistin , springing from the box , inquired whether Monsieur and Madame Herbault and Monsieur Maximilian Morrel would see his excellency the Count of Monte Cristo .
“ Wait , then , ” said the duke , fumbling in his pocket .
He however kept a good countenance , holding his hat in his hand and awaiting the good pleasure of his Eminence , without too much assurance , but also without too much humility .
They both came immediately , M. Morrel bringing a doctor , and the doctor said it was inflammation of the bowels , and ordered him a limited diet .
A minute after the door by which the priest had entered reopened , and Monte Cristo appeared .
You told me , my dear Valentine , that you were engaged to M. d ’ Épinay , and that your father was resolved upon completing the match , and that from his will there was no appeal , as M. de Villefort was never known to change a determination once formed .
“ What then ? ” “ Ah , my dear count , ” said Albert .
“ Ah , sir ! ” replied Raoul , “ her fall is a very serious one , and without any ostensible injury , the physician fears she will be lame for life. ” “ This is terrible , ” said Athos .
Bonacieux recognized in these papers his interrogatories of the Bastille .
“ Why have you caused me thus to fail in my word towards a gentleman like the count , who has all our lives in his hands ?
Ah , you call yourself Oriental , a Levantine , Maltese , Indian , Chinese ; your family name is Monte Cristo ; Sinbad the Sailor is your baptismal appellation , and yet the first day you set foot in Paris you instinctively display the greatest virtue , or rather the chief defect , of us eccentric Parisians , —that is , you assume the vices you have not , and conceal the virtues you possess. ” “ My dear vicomte , ” returned Monte Cristo , “ I do not see , in all I have done , anything that merits , either from you or these gentlemen , the pretended eulogies I have received .
“ Why should you meddle with what does not concern you ? ” The two men turned quickly , and saw the sickly countenance of La Carconte peering between the baluster rails ; attracted by the sound of voices , she had feebly dragged herself down the stairs , and , seated on the lower step , head on knees , she had listened to the foregoing conversation .
You were saying , madame—— ” “ I came to ask you , my friend , ” said the baroness , “ what will be done with this impostor ? ” “ Impostor , ” repeated Villefort ; “ certainly , madame , you appear to extenuate some cases , and exaggerate others .
In the morning the jailer brought him fresh provisions—he had already devoured those of the previous day ; he ate these listening anxiously for the sound , walking round and round his cell , shaking the iron bars of the loophole , restoring vigor and agility to his limbs by exercise , and so preparing himself for his future destiny .
Emmanuel did not conceal his joy at the peaceful termination of the affair , and was loud in his expressions of delight .
Locusta Valentine was alone ; two other clocks , slower than that of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule , struck the hour of midnight from different directions , and excepting the rumbling of a few carriages all was silent .
“ In that case we are as well off as we wish. ” “ And yet , ” said Porthos , “ I would like to know what Grimaud is about. ” “ Silence , Porthos ! ” said Aramis .
0301m Dantès dug away the earth carefully , and detected , or fancied he detected , the ingenious artifice .
“ Well , ” said Aramis , “ what think you about these two enemies whom it requires , besides Comminges ’ s troop , ten good soldiers to confront ; are they not as like as two drops of water to D ’ Artagnan and Porthos ? ” “ We ’ ll search Paris all day long , ” said Athos , “ and if we have no news this evening we will return to the road to Picardy ; and I feel no doubt that , thanks to D ’ Artagnan ’ s ready invention , we shall then find some clew which will solve our doubts. ” “ Yes , let us search Paris and especially inquire of Planchet if he has yet heard from his former master. ” “ That poor Planchet !
The country was beautiful , intersected by valleys as green as the emerald .
“ You know , sir , that they wished to murder that good councillor , Broussel , the father of the people ? ” “ Really , did they ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
I thought for a long time that he was dumb ; he answers only by signs .
I would take the hundred pistoles .
Where is he ? ” “ There , in the salon .
My captain is dead ; I have barely escaped ; but I am a good sailor .
The count had felt the influence of this happiness from the moment he entered the house , and he remained silent and pensive , forgetting that he was expected to renew the conversation , which had ceased after the first salutations had been exchanged .
No half-confidence , or—you understand ! ” “ I know it from my wife , monsieur—from my wife herself. ” “ Who learns it from whom ? ” “ From Monsieur Laporte .
She thought that Lord de Winter had hastened her departure ; she thought she was condemned to set off that very evening .
He had but one thought—to go forward ; and he went .
Days , even months , passed by unheeded in one rapid and instructive course .
Chapter XLVII .
The moon had now risen and he could see well enough to retrace his road .
All this was achieved in much less time than is occupied in the recital .
The pupils of his eyes , as he gazed at Monte Cristo dilated horribly .
The queen appeared to be impatiently expecting them , for at the first slight noise she heard in the hall leading to her room she came herself to the door to receive these courtiers in the corridors of Misfortune .
He went out chiefly to avoid this dangerous enemy , and returned as late as possible in the evening .
Three months since it was M. de Saint-Méran ; Madame de Saint-Méran two months since ; the other day it was Barrois ; today , the old Noirtier , or young Valentine. ” “ You knew it ? ” cried Morrel , in such a paroxysm of terror that Monte Cristo started , —he whom the falling heavens would have found unmoved ; “ you knew it , and said nothing ? ” “ And what is it to me ? ” replied Monte Cristo , shrugging his shoulders ; “ do I know those people ?
After walking for about ten minutes , during which Danglars did not exchange a single word with his guide , he found himself between a hillock and a clump of high weeds ; three men , standing silent , formed a triangle , of which he was the centre .
You know Anne of Austria ; the captivity of Mazarin alone guarantees my life ; if you let him go I am a dead man. ” “ I needed nothing less than that consideration , my dear D ’ Artagnan , to persuade myself to adopt the role of jailer .
“ Ah ! ” said Mousqueton , who had ridden by the side of D ’ Artagnan without speaking a word on the journey , “ you may think what you will , sir , but I can breathe now for the first time since my departure from Pierrefonds ; ” and he put his horse to a gallop to announce to the other servants the arrival of Monsieur du Vallon and his friends .
“ What is that ? ” exclaimed the queen .
Lord de Winter himself could scarcely recognize the tigress who , a minute before , prepared apparently for a fight .
The dark space frightened her .
He began his day by breakfasting substantially—a bad beginning when one wants to employ the head , but an excellent precaution when one wants to work the body ; and about two o ’ clock he had his two horses saddled , and followed by Planchet he quitted Paris by the Barriere de la Villete .
Beauchamp turned to look at some paintings .
This did not seem sufficient ; the man , or rather the ghost—for he trod so softly that no sound was heard—then poured out about a spoonful into the glass , and drank it .
Vampa , without saying a word , hastened to the stone that closed up the entrance to their grotto , drew it away , made a sign to the fugitive to take refuge there , in a retreat unknown to everyone , closed the stone upon him , and then went and resumed his seat by Teresa .
“ God , ” he murmured , not knowing what he said , — “ God—God ! ” Behind the event that had overwhelmed him he saw the hand of God .
Above this floor was a large _atelier_ , which had been increased in size by pulling down the partitions—a pandemonium , in which the artist and the dandy strove for pre-eminence .
“ This clever person is your relative , then ? ” “ Cousin-german. ” “ Go on , to your cousin , then ! ” Aramis continued : “ MY DEAR COUSIN , His Eminence , the cardinal , whom God preserve for the happiness of France and the confusion of the enemies of the kingdom , is on the point of putting an end to the hectic rebellion of La Rochelle .
No door gave entrance to the room .
“ You love my mistress , then , very dearly , Monsieur Chevalier ? ” said she .
They both advanced beneath the trees , through whose branches streamed the moonlight .
Over these dark and sombre chairs were thrown splendid stuffs , dyed beneath Persia ’ s sun , or woven by the fingers of the women of Calcutta or of Chandernagor .
A woman will sell you for ten pistoles , witness Delilah .
“ _Ma foi_ , yes ; like you , I hesitated , but the count ’ s eloquence decides me. ” “ Let us go , then , ” said Franz , “ since you wish it ; but on our way to the Piazza del Popolo , I wish to pass through the Corso .
Go to !
He was shown in directly ; he came to say that if these offensive precautions were not discontinued , in two hours Paris would be under arms .
“ I understand ; you are displeased at the silence I have preserved on the subject .
I will tell you the real facts .
“ Did he send you ? ” “ Yes , sir ; he sent for me to his house , gave me money for my journey , procured a horse , and made me promise not to stop till I had reached you , I have come in fifteen hours. ” Albert opened the letter with fear , uttered a shriek on reading the first line , and seized the paper .
Dantès led the owner of the yacht to the dwelling of a Jew ; retired with the latter for a few minutes to a small back parlor , and upon their return the Jew counted out to the shipbuilder the sum of sixty thousand francs in bright gold pieces .
A light appeared under the door ; this light announced the reappearance of her jailers .
“ That is true , ” said the duke ; “ and it is to this person I am bound to discharge my debt of gratitude. ” “ You have said , my Lord ; for truly , at this moment when there is question of war , I confess to you that I see nothing in your Grace but an Englishman , and consequently an enemy whom I should have much greater pleasure in meeting on the field of battle than in the park at Windsor or the corridors of the Louvre—all which , however , will not prevent me from executing to the very point my commission or from laying down my life , if there be need of it , to accomplish it ; but I repeat it to your Grace , without your having personally on that account more to thank me for in this second interview than for what I did for you in the first. ” “ We say , ‘ Proud as a Scotsman , ’ ” murmured the Duke of Buckingham .
Now , you understand , my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti , that it is useless for you to tell people in France that you have been separated from your son for fifteen years .
D ’ Artagnan remained alone in front of the cardinal ; this was his second interview with Richelieu , and he afterward confessed that he felt well assured it would be his last .
“ I will answer for it , ” said Bonacieux .
Edmond looked at them for a moment with the sad and gentle smile of a man superior to his fellows .
Well , here ’ s the case , here ’ s where the saddle hurts me , as we French say .
Every means had been employed in vain to restore the use of his limbs .
He found him completely surrounded ; all were eager to speak to him , as is always the case with those whose words are few and weighty .
“ I repeat to you , I don ’ t know her. ” “ Why , she is the old wife of a procurator * of the Châtelet , monsieur , named Madame Coquenard , who , although she is at least fifty , still gives herself jealous airs .
His situation was too precarious to allow him even time to reflect on any thought but one .
She is the prettiest little creature in the world , with flaxen hair , blue eyes , —at once saucy and languishing. ” “ But what say you to Raoul ’ s fancy ? ” “ Nothing—I laugh at Raoul ; but this first desire of the heart is imperious .
“ Gentlemen , ” he said in a hoarse voice , “ give me your word of honor that this horrible secret shall forever remain buried amongst ourselves ! ” The two men drew back .
Chapter 46 .
Wealth does not necessarily produce Happiness .
Whatever command she had over herself , Milady could not help starting ; and as in pronouncing the last words Lord de Winter placed his hand upon the arm of his sister , this start did not escape him .
“ Is he rich ? ” “ He ’ s the son of one of the wealthiest merchants in London. ” “ And knows lansquenet ? ” “ Adores it. ” “ Basset ? ” “ His mania. ” “ Biribi ? ” “ Revels in it. ” “ Good , ” said Porthos ; “ we shall pass an agreeable evening. ” “ The more so , as it will be the prelude to a better. ” “ How so ? ” “ We invite him to play to-night ; he has invited us in return to-morrow .
Porthos , Aramis and D ’ Artagnan followed his example .
But M. de Tréville had always been so thoroughly his friend , had always been so devoted to the king and queen , and hated the cardinal so cordially , that the young man resolved to tell him everything .
By its light , between the Island of Lemaire and Cape Croiselle , a quarter of a league distant , Dantès saw a fishing-boat driven rapidly like a spectre before the power of winds and waves .
CAPTIVITY : THE THIRD DAY Chapter LV .
“ Let us visit this one first , ” added he .
“ My children , ” he said , “ this is the Marechal de la Meilleraie , as to whose intentions you have been deceived and who pledges himself , on returning to the Louvre , to demand of the queen , in your name , our Broussel ’ s release .
Thus he came along , supporting himself on a curiously carved stick , his aged countenance lit up with happiness , looking for all the world like one of the aged dandies of 1796 , parading the newly opened gardens of the Luxembourg and Tuileries .
It is true that this provincial was a Gascon ; and that , particularly at this period , the compatriots of D ’ Artagnan had the reputation of not being easily intimidated .
Come , answer freely. ” M. Bonacieux was in the greatest perplexity possible .
Half an hour after the entrance of the king , fresh acclamations were heard ; these announced the arrival of the queen .
Pale and trembling , Milady repulsed D ’ Artagnan ’ s attempted embrace by a violent blow on the chest , as she sprang out of bed .
D ’ Artagnan did not draw his sword ; Porthos put his back into the sheath .
Milady was there , as it were , where you sit. ” ( Athos changed color . )
I suspected where she was concealed .
My sporting dogs consist of two pointers , two harriers and two setters .
“ It appears that Messieurs the Musketeers keep guard , ” said he .
But I love her , my Lord , and was jealous .
Are you a man for the substantials , and is gold your god ?
I have told you that I was traveling on an important mission .
At that moment a burst of ironical laughter resounded through the corridor .
“ Yes , ” said he , “ yes , Anne of Austria is my true queen .
On being left alone with Mme .
May I ask what you were doing there ? ” “ My father , who is a merchant , placed me with his correspondent , who in turn sent his son to join our house in London. ” “ Were you pleased with Paris , sir ? ” “ Yes , but you are much in want of a revolution like our own—not against your king , who is a mere child , but against that lazar of an Italian , the queen ’ s favorite. ” “ Ah !
‘ Now , ’ continued Carlini , ‘ if I have done wrongly , avenge her ; ’ and withdrawing the knife from the wound in Rita ’ s bosom , he held it out to the old man with one hand , while with the other he tore open his vest .
Now , as ever , I am nothing but your servant. ” Then turning to his men : “ Allow these gentlemen to pass , ” he said ; “ they are friends of the Duc de Beaufort. ” “ Long live the Duc de Beaufort ! ” cried the sentinels .
In addition to the levees of the king and the cardinal , there might be reckoned in Paris at that time more than two hundred smaller but still noteworthy levees .
It was almost broad daylight .
Ah !
Anne of Austria sought to read in Mazarin ’ s face the occasion of this unexpected visit , since the cardinal usually came to her apartment only after every one had retired .
A young and beautiful girl , with hair as black as jet , her eyes as velvety as the gazelle ’ s , was leaning with her back against the wainscot , rubbing in her slender delicately moulded fingers a bunch of heath blossoms , the flowers of which she was picking off and strewing on the floor ; her arms , bare to the elbow , brown , and modelled after those of the Arlesian Venus , moved with a kind of restless impatience , and she tapped the earth with her arched and supple foot , so as to display the pure and full shape of her well-turned leg , in its red cotton , gray and blue clocked , stocking .
Then , turning toward Planchet , he made him a sign to uncock his musketoon .
“ These can not be for us , ” said Athos .
“ Here , Laporte , ” said Buckingham , “ these are the only tokens I ever received from her—this silver casket and these two letters .
Will you tell me that they did not lay siege to the hôtel of the Duc de la Trémouille , and that they did not endeavor to burn it ? —which would not , perhaps , have been a great misfortune in time of war , seeing that it is nothing but a nest of Huguenots , but which is , in time of peace , a frightful example .
‘ Approach then , ’ said the messenger , ‘ or I will come nearer to you , if you prefer it. ’ — ‘ I will agree to neither one nor the other , ’ replied the young soldier ; ‘ place the object which I desire to see in the ray of light which shines there , and retire while I examine it. ’ — ‘ Be it so , ’ said the envoy ; and he retired , after having first deposited the token agreed on in the place pointed out to him by Selim .
“ I wish , ” he said , with his cunning smile , “ to prevent them from being ungrateful to me. ” “ It is but Christian charity , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ not to lead one ’ s neighbors into temptation. ” “ It is exactly for that reason , ” said Mazarin , “ that I wish to start before them. ” D ’ Artagnan smiled—he was just the man to understand the astute Italian .
You have a calm , strong mind , Maximilian .
Provisions began to fail , and whenever one of the Prince de Conti ’ s generals wished to gain more influence he got up a little popular tumult , which he put down again , and thus for the moment gained a superiority over his colleagues .
La Carconte continued to gaze on him for some time , then shrugging her shoulders , she took her seat immediately opposite to him .
My ideas are never so clear as when I have had plenty of wine .
Noirtier would not say that the only rest he needed was to see his child , but wished her good-night , for grief and fatigue had made her appear quite ill .
All the ladies rose , and there was a profound silence .
“ I will assist your memory , madame , ” continued the count ; “ the day had been burning hot ; you were waiting for horses , which were delayed in consequence of the festival .
This fortress was his post as king ’ s attorney , all the advantages of which he exploited with marvellous skill , and which he would not have resigned but to be made deputy , and thus to replace neutrality by opposition .
“ And now remember one thing , Monsieur Officer , that my grandfather commands you not to take any rash or ill-advised step which would be likely to compromise our happiness. ” 40108m “ I promised him to wait , ” replied Morrel ; “ and I will wait. ” At this moment Barrois entered .
The Fifth of October VOLUME ONE Chapter 1 .
I am here because I am a soldier and have to obey orders—I have taken an oath to obey , and I do obey ; but you who have taken no such oath , why are you here and what cause do you represent ? ” “ That most sacred in the world , ” said Athos ; “ the cause of misfortune , of religion , royalty .
“ Oh , grace , grace , pardon ! ” cried the wretch , falling on her knees .
40188m “ Florentin here ! ” cried he , starting up ; “ is my mother ill ? ” And he hastened to the door .
In the space of half an hour we shall know the emperor ’ s answer .
De Winter remembered the monster that Milady had been ; he rose , dignified and calm , restraining by the severity of his look the wild glance of the young man .
It is true also , that as I did not then know his Eminence , if I had been able to dispense with the visit , I should have been enchanted. ” “ He ill-treated you , then ; he threatened you ? ” “ He gave me his hand , and called me his friend .
Madame Danglars , in whom the events we have related had caused deep anxiety , had hesitated about going to Madame de Morcerf ’ s , when during the morning her carriage happened to meet that of Villefort .
Upon my soul , everything degenerates ; and I don ’ t know whether it is the game which leaves no scent , or the dogs that have no noses .
The man placed his finger on her lips .
The salon was filled with the works of modern artists ; there were landscapes by Dupré , with their long reeds and tall trees , their lowing oxen and marvellous skies ; Delacroix ’ s Arabian cavaliers , with their long white burnouses , their shining belts , their damasked arms , their horses , who tore each other with their teeth while their riders contended fiercely with their maces ; _aquarelles_ of Boulanger , representing Notre Dame de Paris with that vigor that makes the artist the rival of the poet ; there were paintings by Diaz , who makes his flowers more beautiful than flowers , his suns more brilliant than the sun ; designs by Decamp , as vividly colored as those of Salvator Rosa , but more poetic ; _pastels_ by Giraud and Müller , representing children like angels and women with the features of a virgin ; sketches torn from the album of Dauzats ’ “ Travels in the East , ” that had been made in a few seconds on the saddle of a camel , or beneath the dome of a mosque—in a word , all that modern art can give in exchange and as recompense for the art lost and gone with ages long since past .
He listened—all was silent , as it had been for the last three days .
While the banker was waiting in the anteroom , the door opened , and a man dressed as an abbé and doubtless more familiar with the house than he was , came in and instead of waiting , merely bowed , passed on to the farther apartments , and disappeared .
Bonacieux knew that in talking of money to her husband , she took him on his weak side .
“ If I am to remain here permanently , as Monsieur Mazarin has kindly given me to understand , I must provide myself with a diversion for my old age , I must turn gourmand. ” “ My lord , ” said La Ramee , “ if you will take a bit of good advice , don ’ t put that off till you are old. ” “ Good ! ” said the Duc de Beaufort to himself , “ every man in order that he may lose his heart and soul , must receive from celestial bounty one of the seven capital sins , perhaps two ; it seems that Master La Ramee ’ s is gluttony .
The baron took the pen and signed , then the representative .
The traveller , who was going from Palestrina to Tivoli , had mistaken his way ; the young man directed him ; but as at a distance of a quarter of a mile the road again divided into three ways , and on reaching these the traveller might again stray from his route , he begged Luigi to be his guide .
“ The abbé , the abbé ! ” murmured he , clenching his fists , and his teeth chattering .
As the hand of the clock pointed to five the count struck thrice upon his gong .
Really I like him extremely ; is there not also a matrimonial engagement contemplated for him ? ” “ Yes , he is to marry Mademoiselle de Villefort. ” “ Indeed ? ” 30115m “ And you know I am to marry Mademoiselle Danglars , ” said Albert , laughing .
“ If I had had the honor of seeing you for the third or fourth time , count , instead of only for the second , ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ if I had had the honor of being your friend , instead of only having the happiness of being under an obligation to you , I should insist on detaining you to dinner , and not allow myself to be daunted by a first refusal. ” “ A thousand thanks , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo “ but I have an engagement which I can not break .
The countenances of all gave evidence of terror , for notwithstanding the friendly adieu of his Eminence , they plainly perceived that the cardinal went away with rage in his heart .
And besides , if it is not the prince , then Monsieur de Gondy—— ” “ But Monsieur de Gondy is to be made a cardinal ; they are soliciting the hat for him. ” “ And are there no cardinals that can fight ?
“ May I hope , sir , ” said Madame de Villefort , “ that your intentions accord with my request ? ” Noirtier made a sign that they did .
An instant afterward the three young men separated , agreeing to meet again at four o ’ clock with Athos , and leaving Planchet to guard the house .
“ It was to her he wrote from the siege of Rochelle , to warn her of a plot against the Duke of Buckingham. ” “ Exactly so ; will you allow me to speak to you of her ? ” “ If , ” replied the duchess , with a meaning look , “ you do not say too much against her. ” “ I should be ungrateful , ” said Athos , “ and I regard ingratitude , not as a fault or a crime , but as a vice , which is much worse. ” “ You ungrateful to Marie Michon , monsieur ? ” said Madame de Chevreuse , trying to read in Athos ’ s eyes .
One was the notary ’ s ; the other , that of Franz and his friends .
At the same time Porthos and his adversary fired on each other and D ’ Artagnan turned to him .
“ Nay , ” said Caderousse , “ one can ’ t always work—one is not a dog. ” “ So much the better for the dogs , ” said Monte Cristo .
It was you who cut off the two diamond studs from the shoulder of the Duke of Buckingham ; it was you who had Madame Bonacieux carried off ; it was you who , in love with De Wardes and thinking to pass the night with him , opened the door to Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ; it was you who , believing that De Wardes had deceived you , wished to have him killed by his rival ; it was you who , when this rival had discovered your infamous secret , wished to have him killed in his turn by two assassins , whom you sent in pursuit of him ; it was you who , finding the balls had missed their mark , sent poisoned wine with a forged letter , to make your victim believe that the wine came from his friends .
D ’ Artagnan remained fixed to the spot , astounded and not knowing what to think .
But he bethought him of M. de Villefort ’ s promise ; and , besides , death in a boat from the hand of a gendarme seemed too terrible .
Porthos and Aramis did the same .
do you not know him ? ” “ I have not that honor. ” “ You have never heard his name ? ” “ Never. ” “ Well , then , he is a bandit , compared to whom the Decesaris and the Gasparones were mere children. ” “ Now then , Albert , ” cried Franz , “ here is a bandit for you at last. ” “ I forewarn you , Signor Pastrini , that I shall not believe one word of what you are going to tell us ; having told you this , begin .
Greece only had risen against Turkey , and had begun her war of independence ; all eyes were turned towards Athens—it was the fashion to pity and support the Greeks .
D ’ Artagnan , half stupefied , without his doublet , and with his head bound up in a linen cloth , arose then , and urged by the host , began to descend the stairs ; but on arriving at the kitchen , the first thing he saw was his antagonist talking calmly at the step of a heavy carriage , drawn by two large Norman horses .
Tell me , now , if persistence is not a virtue ? ” “ My faith !
“ Count , ” said he , “ I thank you for your hospitality , which I would gladly have enjoyed longer ; but I must return to Paris. ” “ What has happened ? ” “ A great misfortune , more important to me than life .
The carriage proceeded rapidly towards Paris .
“ Are they both dead ? ” asked Lord de Winter , sternly .
Marechal de la Meilleraie returning without a hat—Fontrailles with his arm in a sling—wounded guards—horses bleeding ; eh , then , what are the sentinels about ?
But I told him I was only mate , and that she belonged to the firm of Morrel & Son .
Villefort retained his place , but his marriage was put off until a more favorable opportunity .
You said you were but three , but it appears to me we are four. ” “ But you are not one of us , ” said Porthos .
His first idea was that this man intended to do him some harm , but on the contrary he saw him fall on his knees before him with his hands clasped .
Life for life , man for man ; give me one , I will give you the other. ” “ I don ’ t know what you mean , nor do I even desire to know what you mean , ” replied the cardinal ; “ but I wish to please you , and see nothing out of the way in giving you what you demand with respect to so infamous a creature—the more so as you tell me this D ’ Artagnan is a libertine , a duelist , and a traitor. ” “ An infamous scoundrel , monseigneur , a scoundrel ! ” “ Give me paper , a quill , and some ink , then , ” said the cardinal .
Did you come here to fetch me ?
Bertuccio left .
Do you wish me to lend you some ? ” 30253m “ What a bad calculator you are ! ” exclaimed Danglars , calling to his assistance all his philosophy and dissimulation .
Then from time to time there came to him an Albanian who said something to which I paid no attention , but which he always answered in the same tone of voice , either ‘ Kill , ’ or ‘ Pardon. ’ ” “ It is very strange , ” said Albert , “ to hear such words proceed from the mouth of anyone but an actress on the stage , and one needs constantly to be saying to one ’ s self , ‘ This is no fiction , it is all reality , ’ in order to believe it .
* “ The Three Musketeers. ” Possessed by this idea , the cardinal resolved to know all about D ’ Artagnan immediately ; of course he could not inquire from D ’ Artagnan himself who he was and what had been his career ; he remarked , however , in the course of conversation that the lieutenant of musketeers spoke with a Gascon accent .
“ From the depth of my heart , ” said Gondy .
The unknown fixed on the young man one of those looks which penetrate into the depth of the heart and thoughts .
It is not so we should evince our resignation to the will of heaven ; on the contrary , we are all free agents. ” “ Alas ! ” exclaimed Mercédès , “ if it were so , if I possessed free-will , but without the power to render that will efficacious , it would drive me to despair. ” Monte Cristo dropped his head and shrank from the vehemence of her grief .
Athos and Aramis placed themselves behind him .
Are you my friend ?
“ Oh , take it—take it , ” said the count ; “ Haydée is almost as civilized as a Parisian ; the smell of a Havana is disagreeable to her , but the tobacco of the East is a most delicious perfume , you know. ” Ali left the room .
“ This Count of Monte Cristo is a strange man , ” said Emmanuel .
40076m Monte Cristo poured a little iced water into a glass , and presented it to her , saying with a mildness in which was also a shade of command , — “ Courage. ” Haydée dried her eyes , and continued : “ By this time our eyes , habituated to the darkness , had recognized the messenger of the pasha , —it was a friend .
You will see in me an ambassador worthy of the high interests he is authorized to discuss with his sovereign. ” “ Where is the treaty ? ” “ Here it is. ” Anne of Austria cast her eyes upon the treaty that D ’ Artagnan presented to her .
Emmanuel followed her , and in the antechamber were visible the rough faces of seven or eight half-naked sailors .
More than two thousand persons had assisted , as at a spectacle , in this fortunate but wild undertaking of the four friends—an undertaking of which they were far from suspecting the real motive .
How came it known ? ” “ I suppose you read it in the paper in the account from Yanina ? ” “ Who wrote to Yanina ? ” “ To Yanina ? ” “ Yes .
No .
Milady kept him within the limits she had traced beforehand with her irresistible spirit and her iron will .
“ You have sent for me , sir , ” said Athos to M. de Tréville , in a feeble yet perfectly calm voice , “ you have sent for me , as my comrades inform me , and I have hastened to receive your orders .
Very often the bandits are hard pressed by gendarmes or carbineers ; well , they see a vessel , and good fellows like us on board , they come and demand hospitality of us ; you can ’ t refuse help to a poor hunted devil ; we receive them , and for greater security we stand out to sea .
International donations are gratefully accepted , but we can not make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States .
D ’ Artagnan , on his part , entered boldly at the principal gate .
He desired him also , should he know in the neighborhood any doctor or chirurgeon , to fetch him , taking on himself the payment of the messenger .
She is a foreigner—a stranger .
She had one hope , which was that Felton would appear at the breakfast hour ; but Felton did not come .
True to his custom of never passing anything over that it was within his power to know , D ’ Artagnan looked out of the window and perceived the close red coat and brown hair of Raoul .
If he be innocent , of course he will be set at liberty ; if guilty , why , it is no use involving ourselves in a conspiracy. ” “ Let us go , then .
Chapter 92 .
the sword ! ” And he jumped off his horse .
“ Nay , dear mother , say the accused person .
At the appointed hour the same man returned in the same carriage , which , instead of stopping this time at the end of the Rue Férou , drove up to the green door .
Besides , the eyes of the Gascons have , as it is asserted , like those of cats , the faculty of seeing in the dark .
He is my demon , apparently .
“ What has happened ? ” “ All sorts of misfortunes. ” “ What ? ” “ In the first place , Monsieur Athos is arrested. ” “ Arrested !
The epithet , as may be easily understood , resounded to the very bottom of D ’ Artagnan ’ s heart .
Buckingham tried to smile a last time ; but death checked his thought , which remained engraved on his brow like a last kiss of love .
Like the streams which the heat of the summer has dried up , and which after the autumnal storms gradually begin oozing drop by drop , so did the count feel his heart gradually fill with the bitterness which formerly nearly overwhelmed Edmond Dantès .
Grimaud , meantime , undid the means of escape .
Athos was the first to leave him , in order that he might retire to a little property he had inherited near Blois ; Porthos , the second , to marry an attorney ’ s wife ; and lastly , Aramis , the third , to take orders and become an abbé .
“ Excuse me , Mr. President , ” he said , in a clear voice , “ but I see you are going to adopt a course of questions through which I can not follow you .
“ Oh , your great work on the monarchy of Italy ! ” Faria then drew forth from his hiding-place three or four rolls of linen , laid one over the other , like folds of papyrus .
Then some words were spoken by the two women .
“ MONSEIGNEUR , Let your Eminence be reassured .
had his , and these two powerful rivals vied with each other in procuring , not only from all the provinces of France , but even from all foreign states , the most celebrated swordsmen .
Well , Dantès , you do not thank me ? ” “ This treasure belongs to you , my dear friend , ” replied Dantès , “ and to you only .
“ He is walking about and thinking , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ but of what ?
“ I beg your pardon , ” said Aramis , noticing his awkwardness ; “ if I had known that I was to have the honor of your visit I should have procured the gardener ’ s ladder ; but for me alone this is good enough. ” “ Sir , ” said Planchet when he saw D ’ Artagnan on the summit of the ladder , “ this way is easy for Monsieur Aramis and even for you ; in case of necessity I might also climb up , but my two horses can not mount the ladder. ” “ Take them to yonder shed , my friend , ” said Aramis , pointing to a low building on the plain ; “ there you will find hay and straw for them ; then come back here and clap your hands three times , and we will give you wine and food .
“ While you have been returning hither he will have escaped and we shall never find him. ” “ Come , now , Aramis , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you must be taking me for some one else. ” “ Nevertheless , ” said Athos , “ in your absence—— ” “ Well , in my absence haven ’ t I put in my place Grimaud and the Scotchman ?
De Guiche fired the first shot at ten paces and missed his man ; and the Spaniard , who had advanced to meet Raoul , aimed in his turn , and Raoul felt a pain in the left arm , similar to that of a blow from a whip .
He turned it gently on its hinges .
“ Friend , ” he said , “ you have worked so hard with me toward building up our fortune , that , at the moment when we are about to reap the fruits of our labours , it would be a ridiculous piece of silliness in you to allow yourself to be controlled by Aramis , whose cunning you know—a cunning which , we may say between ourselves , is not always without egotism ; or by Athos , a noble and disinterested man , but blase , who , desiring nothing further for himself , doesn ’ t sympathize with the desires of others .
He told me your life was his , and I have promised him that you shall live. ” “ You have promised him that I shall live ? ” “ Yes. ” “ But , sir , you spoke of vigilance and protection .
The stranger had written to Lord Wilmore , requesting an interview , which the latter had fixed for ten o ’ clock .
“ Yes , yes , ” continued Morrel ; “ recall the scene , for the words you thought were only given to silence and solitude fell into my ears .
“ And you , my friend , there is a demipistole for your trouble ; you will tell Monsieur de Tréville that Monsieur Aramis is very much obliged to him .
This threatening answer , unluckily for the court , produced quite a different effect to that which was intended .
Yes , sire , yes , it is the same ; and your Majesty has a good memory. ” “ Come , how shall we decide ? ” said the king .
Neither dared for some time to speak in that room .
You know that the English laws are inexorable on the abuse of marriage .
But the count completely baffled the procureur , and prevented him from discovering anything beneath the never-varying smile he was so constantly in the habit of assuming .
As for M. de Tréville , when the eyes of the king fell upon him , he sustained the look with so much firmness that it was the king who dropped his eyes ; after which his Majesty , grumbling , entered his apartment .
At five o ’ clock Albert returned , delighted with his day ’ s work ; he had been occupied in leaving his letters of introduction , and had received in return more invitations to balls and routs than it would be possible for him to accept ; besides this , he had seen ( as he called it ) all the remarkable sights at Rome .
Old Dantès was dead , and Mercédès had disappeared .
There were sentinels , a guard in the court , stacks of arms , and horses saddled .
As for the two others , I had so much the habit of calling them by nicknames that I have forgotten their real ones. ” “ Oh , mon Dieu , it is a matter of the greatest urgency to find them out , ” said the queen , “ since you think these worthy gentlemen might be so useful to the king. ” “ Oh , yes , ” said De Winter , “ for they are the same men .
“ Listen , Milady , ” said the cardinal , “ the affair is important .
A Musketeer loves women , and he loves them by clasping his arms round them. ” Milady waited , then , with much impatience , for she feared the day would pass away without her seeing Felton again .
In his projects of intrigue for the future , and determined as he was to make his three friends the instruments of his fortune , D ’ Artagnan was not sorry at getting into his grasp beforehand the invisible strings by which he reckoned upon moving them .
Science loves eccentricities , leaps and bounds , trials of strength , fancies , if I may be allowed so to term them .
Coquenard .
While waiting , the occupant of the carriage surveyed the house , the garden as far as he could distinguish it , and the livery of servants who passed to and fro , with an attention so close as to be somewhat impertinent .
“ What sort of a man is he ? ” “ Ask the Vicomte de Morcerf. ” “ You hear , M. de Morcerf , I am referred to you , ” said the countess .
So strange a reception naturally gave Milady ample matter for reflection ; so seeing that the young officer did not seem at all disposed for conversation , she reclined in her corner of the carriage , and one after the other passed in review all the surmises which presented themselves to her mind .
There was a postscript : “ I write by the same courier to our worthy friend Aramis in his convent. ” “ In his convent !
But as there was nothing positively certain in this report , the young warriors decided to continue their way toward Bethune , free on the road to diverge to the right and march to Carvin if necessary .
Athos at that moment extended his hand with the air of supreme command which characterized him alone , drew out his sword and the scabbard at the same time , broke the blade in the sheath on his knee and threw the pieces to his right .
As a further precaution they had bound his hands .
“ What consoles me , ” said the cardinal after reading the letter , “ is that , at least , in this chase , D ’ Artagnan has done me one good turn—he has destroyed Broussel .
Milady smiled at this thought , for Felton was now her only hope—her only means of safety .
Good journey to him ! ” “ With all his millions , he will not have enough to pay for his shroud ! ” said another .
Meantime D ’ Artagnan had thrown himself upon the other soldier , attacking him with his sword .
Suddenly he arose , lifted his hand to his brow as if his brain were giddy , paced twice or thrice round the dungeon , and then paused abruptly by the bed .
At the end of two hours , as Porthos did not come , not any news of him , they resumed their journey .
The four friends followed , ten paces behind him .
The solitary light burning at the Catalans ; that first sight of the Château d ’ If , which told him whither they were leading him ; the struggle with the gendarmes when he wished to throw himself overboard ; his despair when he found himself vanquished , and the sensation when the muzzle of the carbine touched his forehead—all these were brought before him in vivid and frightful reality .
Cæsar , poisoned at the same time , escaped by shedding his skin like a snake ; but the new skin was spotted by the poison till it looked like a tiger ’ s .
He turned his eyes towards the soup which the jailer had brought , rose , staggered towards it , raised the vessel to his lips , and drank off the contents with a feeling of indescribable pleasure .
“ The Abbé Busoni ! ” repeated Caderousse , fixing his haggard gaze on the count .
You said Anne de Bueil , did you not ? ” “ Yes , yes , that was her name ; and now absolve me , for I am dying. ” “ I , absolve you ! ” cried the priest , with a laugh which made the dying man ’ s hair stand on end ; “ I , absolve you ?
Do you hear—not a single creature !
“ Ah , ” he exclaimed , “ that woman became criminal only from associating with me !
He had a heavy hand—dear old Athos—after drinking. ” D ’ Artagnan , after asking the man the right way , continued his route , agitated in spite of himself at the idea of seeing once more that singular man whom he had so truly loved and who had contributed so much by advice and example to his education as a gentleman .
“ My master will go to dinner. ” “ And after dinner ? ” “ He will sleep an hour. ” “ Then ? ” “ He is going to the Opera. ” “ Are you sure of it ? ” asked Albert .
Luigi arrived first .
He looked again through his glass , but even then he could not distinguish anything .
“ But how do you know all this ? ” “ How do I know it ? ” “ Yes , how do you know it ?
However , the duke contrived to hide the ball under his bolster and as soon as the door was closed he tore off the cover of the ball with his teeth and found underneath the following letter : My Lord , —Your friends are watching over you and the hour of your deliverance is at hand .
Goodnight. ” And before Dantès could open his mouth—before he had noticed where the jailer placed his bread or the water—before he had glanced towards the corner where the straw was , the jailer disappeared , taking with him the lamp and closing the door , leaving stamped upon the prisoner ’ s mind the dim reflection of the dripping walls of his dungeon .
“ Humph , ” murmured Athos , “ it is certainly she ! ” And letting fall his cloak and raising his hat , he advanced toward Milady .
“ Come , now that we are alone , ” said Athos , “ let us talk of yourself. ” “ Whilst we are alone let us speak of ourselves , ” replied De Winter .
“ But our troop horses ? ” said Aramis .
That happened which M. de Tréville had foreseen .
They passed close by the unhappy being , who , concealed behind the damask curtain , almost felt Mercédès dress brush past him , and his son ’ s warm breath , pronouncing these words : “ Courage , mother !
But this last and dreaded resource served only to exasperate the multitude .
Since , the evening before , he had really been the hero of one of the tales of the _Thousand and One Nights_ , and he was irresistibly attracted towards the grotto .
Well , if you do not go this very instant , I will have you arrested by the queen ’ s orders , and I will have you placed in the Bastille which you dread so much. ” Bonacieux fell into a profound reflection .
He sat down by the side of the moat , buried his face in his hands and reflected .
At that moment the countenance of Mme .
“ Yes , I inherited this little property when I quitted the army , as I told you .
Is that what you would say ? ” “ He has some , but he is very avaricious ; that is his fault .
“ Is it possible ? ” burst simultaneously from all who were near enough to the magistrate to hear his words .
I have sworn. ” “ And now , madame , try to make your peace with God , for you are judged by men ! ” Milady let her head sink , as if crushed by this sentence .
But this deception would probably not have stopped our fiery young man if the host had not reflected that the reclamation which his guest made was perfectly just .
“ Aramis , my good friend , this time you are wrong , ” interrupted Porthos .
“ A spent ball ? ” “ Not even that. ” “ What is it , then ? ” We have said that Athos loved D ’ Artagnan like a child , and this somber and inflexible personage felt the anxiety of a parent for the young man .
Yesterday he wrote again ; but it was his servant who this time put the letter in the post. ” “ Do you say the procurator ’ s wife is old and ugly ? ” “ Fifty at least , monsieur , and not at all handsome , according to Pathaud ’ s account. ” “ In that case , you may be quite at ease ; she will soon be softened .
Though I remember , in our affair of the Rue Férou , I received a sword wound which at the end of fifteen or eighteen days produced the same effect. ” “ But this dinner was not intended for you alone , Porthos ? ” said Aramis .
I mean M. de Villefort , the king ’ s attorney. ” “ Ah , ” said the priest , in a marked Italian accent ; “ yes , I have heard that death is in that house. ” “ Then I need not tell you what kind of service he requires of you. ” “ I was about to offer myself , sir , ” said the priest ; “ it is our mission to forestall our duties. ” “ It is a young girl. ” “ I know it , sir ; the servants who fled from the house informed me .
And now ? ” “ Now escort me. ” “ Where ? ” “ Where I am going. ” “ But where are you going ? ” “ You will see , because you will leave me at the door. ” “ Shall I wait for you ? ” “ That will be useless. ” “ You will return alone , then ? ” “ Perhaps yes , perhaps no. ” “ But will the person who shall accompany you afterward be a man or a woman ? ” “ I don ’ t know yet. ” “ But I will know it ! ” “ How so ? ” “ I will wait until you come out. ” “ In that case , adieu. ” “ Why so ? ” “ I do not want you. ” “ But you have claimed— ” “ The aid of a gentleman , not the watchfulness of a spy. ” “ The word is rather hard. ” “ How are they called who follow others in spite of them ? ” “ They are indiscreet. ” “ The word is too mild. ” “ Well , madame , I perceive I must do as you wish. ” “ Why did you deprive yourself of the merit of doing so at once ? ” “ Is there no merit in repentance ? ” “ And do you really repent ? ” “ I know nothing about it myself .
“ No ; but pray grant me that it is acting with an ill grace to offer to the Lord only that with which we are perfectly disgusted !
LOVER AND HUSBAND Ah , Madame , ” said D ’ Artagnan , entering by the door which the young woman opened for him , “ allow me to tell you that you have a bad sort of a husband. ” “ You have , then , overheard our conversation ? ” asked Mme .
“ In France ! ” he cried , “ the usurper in France !
“ You too , then , are unhappy ? ” she said .
Ask Baron Franz d ’ Épinay ; I think he tasted them one day. ” “ Yes , ” replied Morcerf , “ he said something about it to me. ” “ But , ” said Beauchamp , who , as became a journalist , was very incredulous , “ you always carry this drug about you ? ” “ Always. ” “ Would it be an indiscretion to ask to see those precious pills ? ” continued Beauchamp , hoping to take him at a disadvantage .
Felton named Lord de Winter ; the unknown would not name anybody , and pretended that it was to the duke alone he would make himself known .
It is fair to assume that Dantès was on board a smuggler .
I learn all in the silence of my apartments , —for instance , I see all the newspapers , every periodical , as well as every new piece of music ; and by thus watching the course of the life of others , I learned what had transpired this morning in the House of Peers , and what was to take place this evening ; then I wrote. ’ 40204m “ ‘ Then , ’ remarked the president , ‘ the Count of Monte Cristo knows nothing of your present proceedings ? ’ — ‘ He is quite unaware of them , and I have but one fear , which is that he should disapprove of what I have done .
“ That is useless. ” “ Yes , yes !
As they reached the shore , the count instinctively shrunk to the extreme end of the boat , and the owner was obliged to call out , in his sweetest tone of voice : “ Sir , we are at the landing. ” Monte Cristo remembered that on that very spot , on the same rock , he had been violently dragged by the guards , who forced him to ascend the slope at the points of their bayonets .
In the large room of the hotel a small table was placed for him and a large one for the officers .
I love you as my life , for you are the best , the noblest of created beings ! ” 50277m “ Let it be , then , as you wish , sweet angel ; God has sustained me in my struggle with my enemies , and has given me this reward ; he will not let me end my triumph in suffering ; I wished to punish myself , but he has pardoned me .
Yet , through a singular impulse , it was neither to her mother nor her brother that she applied , but to Emmanuel .
The young girl no longer breathed , no breath issued through the half-closed teeth ; the white lips no longer quivered—the eyes were suffused with a bluish vapor , and the long black lashes rested on a cheek white as wax .
The belfry of St .
She stopped astonished , then the voice reached her ear more distinctly , and she recognized it to be that of Maximilian .
He had only been back an hour or two ; he had accompanied his wife to the place of her confinement , or else at least to the first relay .
Number 34 and Number 27 Dantès passed through all the stages of torture natural to prisoners in suspense .
In exchange for all this , he had acquired the protection and good will of the queen ; but the favor of the queen was at the present time an additional cause of persecution , and her protection , as it was known , protected badly—as witness Chalais and Mme .
And you have , I am sure , the fullest confidence in my honor .
And you , you , D ’ Artagnan , a man sprung from the ancient nobility of France , bearing an honorable name , carrying a good sword , have helped to give up a king to beersellers , shopkeepers , and wagoners .
We have made considerable advances ; and this very morning the surgeon declared that if Monsieur Porthos did not pay him , he should look to me , as it was I who had sent for him. ” “ Porthos is wounded , then ? ” “ I can not tell you , monsieur. ” “ What !
Milady ’ s supper was brought in , and she was found deeply engaged in saying her prayers aloud—prayers which she had learned of an old servant of her second husband , a most austere Puritan .
He was calm ; but the agitation of the night was legible in his pale and careworn visage .
The banker uttered a groan and followed his guide ; he neither supplicated nor exclaimed .
“ Come , sir. ” “ Wait , ” said Monte Cristo , “ I wish to take one final glance around this room. ” “ This is fortunate , ” said the guide ; “ I have forgotten the other key. ” “ Go and fetch it. ” “ I will leave you the torch , sir. ” “ No , take it away ; I can see in the dark. ” “ Why , you are like No .
A fortnight afterward the duke , going to the tennis court , found two rows of trees about the size of his little finger planted by the roadside ; he asked what they were for and was told that they were to shade him from the sun on some future day .
Impossible ! ” “ Go on , go on , my dear fellow ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ for upon my honor , you will kill me with your indifference. ” “ We divided , then , this diamond into ten parts of a hundred pistoles each. ” “ You are laughing at me , and want to try me ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , whom anger began to take by the hair , as Minerva takes Achilles , in the _Iliad_ .
Before he had taken ten steps beyond the door I had examined the house on all sides .
is he , too , a Bragelonne ? ” asked Lord de Winter .
Indeed , almost before the door opened , the scene changed .
In the intervening time Buckingham perhaps sent him to Paris , as he did the horses .
Many men might have been handsomer , but certainly there could be none whose appearance was more _significant_ , if the expression may be used .
Grimaud was so breathless , so exhausted , that he had fallen back upon a chair .
If his excellency will recollect—if he will think—— ” “ Ah , true , ” observed Monte Cristo ; “ I recollect now .
Meanwhile , do not be surprised at anything that happens ; prepare yourself for every emergency. ” Charles shook his head .
I actually love no one , sir ; you know it , do you not ?
Dantès seemed full of kindness .
I shall not find amongst them such great hearts as yours .
Ta , ta , ta , ti , ta , ti , ta , ta ; it is charming , let them finish—one moment .
Though Mordaunt had been so completely taken by surprise and had mounted the stairs in such utter confusion , when once seated he recovered himself , as it were , and prepared to seize any possible opportunity of escape .
Approach and look at him and say if we have the appearance of people who wish to run away. ” “ No , certainly , ” replied Planchet , rather astonished at the unexpected honor conferred upon him .
All the weight of his fallen fortune seemed suddenly to crush him ; he could not foresee the consequences ; he could not contemplate the future with the indifference of the hardened criminal who merely faces a contingency already familiar .
You will need it this evening , perhaps ; you will certainly need it to-morrow. ” Raoul didn ’ t wait to be told twice ; he knew that with superiors , especially when those superiors are princes , the highest politeness is to obey without delay or argument ; he went down to the stables , picked out a pie-bald Andalusian horse , saddled and bridled it himself , for Athos had advised him to trust no one with those important offices at a time of danger , and went to rejoin the prince , who at that moment mounted his horse .
If I were obliged to fight against you , I think I should allow myself to be pierced through and through , for I never loved any one but you in the wide world ; ” and honest Porthos burst into tears as he embraced Athos .
“ If that be the case , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ they are doubtless transporting her from one prison to another .
Save my husband !
You refuse me my liberty ; God will give it me. ” And the abbé , casting away his coverlet , resumed his place , and continued his calculations .
he knows how to crunch fowls , to dodge the huntsman and to find his way home by day or by night , that ’ s all .
“ Let us go , then , ” said Athos .
A few moments passed ; a great noise was heard at the gate .
What though she has lost her own mother at a tender age , she has had the happiness to find a second mother in Madame de Villefort. ’ The world , however , is mistaken ; my father abandons me from utter indifference , while my stepmother detests me with a hatred so much the more terrible because it is veiled beneath a continual smile. ” “ Hate you , sweet Valentine , ” exclaimed the young man ; “ how is it possible for anyone to do that ? ” “ Alas , ” replied the weeping girl , “ I am obliged to own that my stepmother ’ s aversion to me arises from a very natural source—her overweening love for her own child , my brother Edward. ” “ But why should it ? ” “ I do not know ; but , though unwilling to introduce money matters into our present conversation , I will just say this much—that her extreme dislike to me has its origin there ; and I much fear she envies me the fortune I enjoy in right of my mother , and which will be more than doubled at the death of M. and Mme .
D ’ Artagnan came forward and stammered out a few words of gratitude which soon expired under the gloomy looks of the cardinal .
Taste that fowl and those fish .
All three agreed to meet at noon in Whitehall Place to see how things went on .
It is necessary to inspire confidence in that poor little Madame Bonacieux. ” “ That ’ s true .
20043m “ There ’ s nothing gives you so much courage as good reasons , ” continued the sailor ; “ and during that time the wind had abated , and the sea gone down , but the water kept rising ; not much , only two inches an hour , but still it rose .
How have you spent this 250,000 francs ? —it is no business of mine. ” “ When are you coming to the point ? ” cried the baroness , shivering with anger and impatience .
He will , perhaps , hold me in greater esteem than the money itself , seeing that I sacrifice everything in order to keep my word with him .
“ Peste , if he is giving away hats like that , Porthos , let us look out and both demand a regiment to-morrow .
30023m M. de Villefort was not only a magistrate , he was almost a diplomatist .
But Felton—that ’ s another thing .
I do not feel remorse , because had we allowed her to live she would have persisted in her work of destruction .
She was lost in reverie , and the reverie of crime is remorse .
He had apparently given previous orders , for as he reached the bottom step his carriage came from the coach-house ready for him .
“ Need we think of that since we are to save the king ?
D ’ Artagnan turned around and saw the unfortunate man upon his back about four paces off .
“ Ah !
“ Then tell the men to be in readiness—don ’ t tell them why now .
I therefore maintain , in spite of Morcerf , that not only is the count the object of interest at this present moment , but also that he will continue to be so for a month longer if he pleases to exhibit an eccentricity of conduct which , after all , may be his ordinary mode of existence. ” “ Perhaps you are right , ” said Morcerf ; “ meanwhile , who is in the Russian ambassador ’ s box ? ” “ Which box do you mean ? ” asked the countess .
When she recovered , her father was by her side .
You do not know what felicity from heaven , what joys from paradise , are comprised in a moment like that .
I am no swordsman. ” “ Well , don ’ t be alarmed if I return at one , two or three o ’ clock in the morning ; indeed , do not be alarmed if I do not come at all. ” This time Bonacieux became so pale that D ’ Artagnan could not help perceiving it , and asked him what was the matter .
Therefore , in spite of Olivain ’ s remarks , he continued to urge his steed more and more , and following a pleasant little path , leading to a ferry , and which he had been assured shortened the journey by the distance of one league , he arrived at the summit of a hill and perceived the river flowing before him .
Ah !
This man has often made me shudder ; and one day when we were viewing an execution , I thought I should faint , more from hearing the cold and calm manner in which he spoke of every description of torture , than from the sight of the executioner and the culprit. ” “ Did he not conduct you to the ruins of the Colosseum and suck your blood ? ” asked Beauchamp .
France will not , perhaps , be always ungrateful .
He esteems me highly .
Olivain was at the same distance in the rear , when suddenly there resounded five or six musket-shots .
The lieutenant remained standing in a dignified but respectful posture , such as became a man of good birth , who had in the course of his life been frequently in the society of the highest nobles .
‘ Have you any other guests in your house ? ’ inquired he .
In your case it would be a crime .
Then the danger was so imminent , the rioters came so near , uttering such threats , that the chancellor thought his last hour had come and confessed himself to his brother priest , so as to be all ready to die in case he was discovered .
Porthos succeeded him ; and thanks to one of those disappearances to which he was accustomed , he was able to provide for the wants of all for a fortnight .
_ “ ‘ Luigi Vampa. ’ ” “ What think you of that ? ” inquired Franz .
Milady , during the passage had contrived to untie the cord which fastened her feet .
“ Did you anticipate the accident which has happened to your granddaughter ? ” “ Yes. ” D ’ Avrigny reflected a moment ; then approaching Noirtier : “ Pardon what I am going to say , ” added he , “ but no indication should be neglected in this terrible situation .
I was , therefore , obliged to give it up , as you may imagine , but I own I went away with rather a heavy heart , for the horse had looked at me affectionately , had rubbed his head against me and , when I mounted him , had pranced in the most delightful way imaginable , so that I was altogether fascinated with him .
“ If I had any money , ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself , “ I would go away ; but I have none .
But Fernand was mistaken ; a man of his disposition never kills himself , for he constantly hopes .
“ Is she there , Grimaud ? ” asked Athos .
At this moment a shriek was heard that seemed to come from the river .
It seems—— ” “ That his experiments have very considerably advanced the cause of science , doubtless ? ” “ No ; that his style of writing is very good. ” “ This must be very flattering to the feelings of the rabbits into whose heads he has thrust pins , to the fowls whose bones he has dyed red , and to the dogs whose spinal marrow he has punched out ? ” Albert laughed .
Again he climbed the rocky height he had ascended the previous evening , and strained his view to catch every peculiarity of the landscape ; but it wore the same wild , barren aspect when seen by the rays of the morning sun which it had done when surveyed by the fading glimmer of eve .
“ In that case , ” replied the major , “ it would be necessary to write to the curé for duplicates , and it would be some time before they could be obtained. ” “ It would be a difficult matter to arrange , ” said Monte Cristo .
To eat—do you hear ? ” “ Are you hungry ? ” “ Come , you understand me. ” “ What would your excellency like to eat ? ” “ A piece of dry bread , since the fowls are beyond all price in this accursed place. ” “ Bread ?
How happy you are in being exempt from all this ! ” “ Well , and why should not you be free , too ?
Chapter 63 .
“ Although , ” said Villefort , “ it will be a serious thing for Valentine to lose her grandfather ’ s fortune , I do not think that M. d ’ Épinay will be frightened at this pecuniary loss .
“ He appears cool .
Gaetano departed with the reply .
Indeed , indeed I did not ! ’ “ A couple of gendarmes held the muzzles of their carbines against my breast .
A door hidden in the tapestry opened noiselessly and a man in black silently advanced and stood behind the chair on which Mazarin sat .
Nevertheless , at eight o ’ clock in the morning the regiment of the queen ’ s guards , commanded by Guitant , under whom was his nephew Comminges , marched publicly , preceded by drums and trumpets , filing off from the Palais Royal as far as Notre Dame , a manoeuvre which the Parisians witnessed tranquilly , delighted as they were with military music and brilliant uniforms .
Franz passed the night in confused dreams respecting the two meetings he had already had with his mysterious tormentor , and in waking speculations as to what the morrow would produce .
Our group would then be quite complete , more especially as the countess is quite beautiful enough to represent a Madonna. ” “ Well , ” said Franz , “ this time , M. Albert , I am bound to give you credit for having hit upon a most capital idea. ” “ And quite a national one , too , ” replied Albert with gratified pride .
“ Alas !
At length the hour drew near .
He is a charming fellow , I allow , when his news is correct ; but when it is not , there are fifty others in the world who would do better than he. ” Madame Danglars was rooted to the spot ; she made a violent effort to reply to this last attack , but she fell upon a chair thinking of Villefort , of the dinner scene , of the strange series of misfortunes which had taken place in her house during the last few days , and changed the usual calm of her establishment to a scene of scandalous debate .
He went away thoughtful and anxious and returned to his own room , where he summoned Bernouin and desired him to fetch thither in the morning the special guard he had placed over Monsieur de Beaufort and to awaken him whenever he should arrive .
“ For his death. ” “ The death of your prince ? ” “ Yes. ” “ How so ? ” “ Because he has made his will in my favor. ” “ Indeed ? ” “ On my honor. ” “ For how much ? ” “ For five hundred thousand. ” “ Only that ?
“ That is because love has come suddenly upon me , and for the first time ; and because I am only twenty. ” The young woman looked at him furtively .
“ You can not be speaking seriously , Athos ! ” said he ; “ the king is surrounded by an army , which is conducting him to London .
You are mistaken .
I will go down. ” Then he descended , a smile on his lips , and murmuring that last word of human philosophy , “ Perhaps ! ” But instead of the darkness , and the thick and mephitic atmosphere he had expected to find , Dantès saw a dim and bluish light , which , as well as the air , entered , not merely by the aperture he had just formed , but by the interstices and crevices of the rock which were visible from without , and through which he could distinguish the blue sky and the waving branches of the evergreen oaks , and the tendrils of the creepers that grew from the rocks .
“ What are you doing , reverend sir ?
The cardinal went up to him and touched his shoulder .
30 .
Do you know that I am growing old ?
Planchet and Bazin shall go .
Then who reigns in France at this moment—Napoleon II .
They brought me that book .
Milady tried to open the door in order to throw herself out .
Caderousse rose .
He was silent for an instant , and during that time he scanned the young man even more attentively than he had done at first .
There all the thoughts which had disturbed me during my year of constant agony came back with double force .
Thank you , madame , I am aware of them now ; Monsieur Cardinal has enlightened me on that head. ” “ The cardinal ? ” cried Mme .
That man had the power to crush him , and yet he had not done so .
“ Then , at least turn the gem inside , you silly fellow ; for everybody must be aware that a cadet from Gascony does not find such stones in his mother ’ s jewel case. ” “ You think , then , I have something to dread ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
True , he might in such a case rely on the kindness of Signor Torlonia .
From Blois to Paris was a journey of four days for ordinary travelers , but D ’ Artagnan arrived on the third day at the Barriere Saint Denis .
But at the street gate , Porthos was talking with the soldier on guard .
Yes , indeed , that ’ s the right thing .
The Gratitude of Anne of Austria .
“ Nine-tenths of the English people are horrified at what you say. ” This voice was that of Athos , who , standing up with outstretched hand and quite out of his mind , thus assailed the public accuser .
Proud of this exploit , Vampa took the dead animal on his shoulders , and carried him to the farm .
Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed editions , all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included .
Whether he heard Mordaunt or not as he entered , Cromwell did not move .
He believed this opportunity was now come and addressed his neighbor : “ It is not astonishing that that young man should be afraid of a ball , for he is doubtless a Musketeer apprentice. ” D ’ Artagnan turned round as if a serpent had stung him , and fixed his eyes intensely upon the Guardsman who had just made this insolent speech .
That was what he could not know .
He waited , then , in the ante-chamber with impatience , till he should be conducted to them .
“ Do not dig any more , ” said the voice ; “ only tell me how high up is your excavation ? ” “ On a level with the floor. ” “ How is it concealed ? ” “ Behind my bed. ” “ Has your bed been moved since you have been a prisoner ? ” “ No. ” “ What does your chamber open on ? ” “ A corridor. ” “ And the corridor ? ” “ On a court. ” “ Alas ! ” murmured the voice .
“ This was our resolution ; a cabriolet was in waiting at the gate , in which I intended to carry off Valentine to my sister ’ s house , to marry her , and to wait respectfully M. de Villefort ’ s pardon. ” “ No , ” said Noirtier .
Cucumetto placed his sentinels for the night , and the bandits wrapped themselves in their cloaks , and lay down before the fire .
He was not particularly tall , but extremely well made , and , like the men of the South , had small hands and feet .
Certainly , there are people whom I love .
“ How many rounds do they make a night ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , drawing more pistoles from his pocket .
His devotion , and the compassion he showed for her misfortunes , produced the effect they always produce on noble minds—Mercédès had always had a sincere regard for Fernand , and this was now strengthened by gratitude .
“ Raoul is gone to Blois and is ignorant of my departure ; watch over him in my absence as much as you possibly can ; and if by chance you receive no news of me three months hence , tell him to open a packet which he will find addressed to him in my bronze casket at Blois , of which I send you now the key .
He was my friend : he had no secrets from me , and if this had been so he would have confided in me. ” “ And he told you nothing ? ” “ Not a word. ” “ Nothing that would lead you to suppose ? ” “ Nothing. ” “ And yet you spoke of him at once. ” “ Ah , in such a case one supposes—— ” “ Sister , sister , ” said Maximilian , coming to the count ’ s aid , “ monsieur is quite right .
“ ’ Tis a rondeau by Monsieur Voiture that monsieur l ’ abbé is repeating to me. ” said Athos in a loud voice , “ and I confess I think it incomparable. ” Raoul stayed only a few minutes near them and then mingled with the group round Madame de Chevreuse .
I have served them without enthusiasm—God knows that I estimated them at their real value , and that they are not high in my esteem—but on principle .
Come , I beseech you , lend me twenty francs , so that I may buy a dressing-gown ; it is intolerable always to be in a coat and boots !
He is very young ; but a sword thrust is a sword thrust , whatever be the age of him who gives it , and a youth is less to be suspected than an older man , ” and the stranger fell into a reverie which lasted some minutes .
Do not attribute to me more than I deserve , sire , that your majesty may never have occasion to recall the first opinion you have been pleased to form of me. ” The minister of police thanked the young man by an eloquent look , and Villefort understood that he had succeeded in his design ; that is to say , that without forfeiting the gratitude of the king , he had made a friend of one on whom , in case of necessity , he might rely .
He profited by this distraction to slip away among the crowd , without even thanking the worthy priests who accompanied him .
Every career is open to you .
Are you going ? ” added she to Comminges .
“ Your pardon , M. Morrel , ” said Dantès , approaching , “ the vessel now rides at anchor , and I am at your service .
Bradshaw waited , and as there was no reply there was a moment of silence .
“ Will your majesty pardon me , ” said Planchet , “ but is it really the king who is lying there ? ” Anne of Austria started .
Bonacieux uttered a little cry and fled .
They were attired as peasants of Albano , Velletri , Civita-Castellana , and Sora .
S.—Go to the king ’ s treasurer , at Blois ; tell him your name and show him this letter ; you will receive two hundred pistoles. ” “ Assuredly , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I admire this piece of prose .
“ Be ready , ” said Porthos , as he slipped through the opening .
They led me away masked .
I was rocked when an infant in the arms of old Ocean , and on the bosom of the beautiful Amphitrite ; I have sported with the green mantle of the one and the azure robe of the other ; I love the sea as a mistress , and pine if I do not often see her. ” “ Let us go , count. ” “ To sea ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You accept my proposal ? ” “ I do. ” “ Well , viscount , there will be in my courtyard this evening a good travelling britzka , with four post-horses , in which one may rest as in a bed .
He will treat me better the next time I see him. ” “ You have the means , then , of touching him ? ” “ I have the means of making myself feared. ” Mazarin looked at the young man , but at the fire which shot from his glance he bent his head ; then , embarrassed how to continue such a conversation , he opened Cromwell ’ s letter .
Fernand departed with the rest , bearing with him the terrible thought that while he was away , his rival would perhaps return and marry Mercédès .
Felton ’ s orders were , for the rest , executed with a silent rapidity that gave a good idea of the way in which he maintained discipline .
The mendicant hesitated at first , but at the sight of the piece of silver which shone in the darkness he consented , and walked on before Athos .
Nothing then was altered in the plan , and orders were given to get under weigh next night , and , wind and weather permitting , to make the neutral island by the following day .
“ _Non capisco_ ” ( do not understand ) , was the reply .
The piercing eye of Monte Cristo glanced through clusters of bushes and trees , and was soon relieved from all anxiety , for seeing a shadow glide between the yew-trees , Monte Cristo recognized him whom he sought .
The Will As soon as Barrois had left the room , Noirtier looked at Valentine with a malicious expression that said many things .
Could you not perceive by our appearance that we were people of quality , and not coiners—say ? ” “ Yes , monsieur , you are right , ” said the host .
The bandit gazed on this scene with amazement ; he was evidently accustomed to see his prisoners tremble before him , and yet here was one whose gay temperament was not for a moment altered ; as for Franz , he was enchanted at the way in which Albert had sustained the national honor in the presence of the bandit .
Then , as it was cold , he asked for his gown , which was brought to him .
Go but to Portsmouth or Southampton , and you will find the harbors crowded with the yachts belonging to such of the English as can afford the expense , and have the same liking for this amusement .
His next care on leaving the barber ’ s who had achieved his first metamorphosis was to enter a shop and buy a complete sailor ’ s suit—a garb , as we all know , very simple , and consisting of white trousers , a striped shirt , and a cap .
It is necessary that we should be more than complaisant to the count .
He will not desert , Monsieur the Cardinal , be assured of that ; I will answer for him. ” “ No , he will not desert , ” said the king ; “ he can always be found , as Tréville says .
Bonacieux hesitated to continue .
“ But , madame , ” replied the count , continuing the conversation , and looking by turns at Madame de Villefort and Valentine , “ have I not already had the honor of meeting yourself and mademoiselle before ?
“ Come , come , ” said Andrea , “ sheathe your sword , my fine fellow ; there is no occasion to make such a fuss , since I give myself up ; ” and he held out his hands to be manacled .
he can not make me forget what I shall have lost ! ” Thus talking , they traversed the streets , full of people on account of the fete , and arrived opposite the old cathedral , where first mass was going on .
I guessed it !
“ Well , if he is dead , ” said Athos , “ he has not been so long , for he is still warm .
“ And by what gate did they go out ? ” “ By the Saint Maur gate. ” “ If you are deceiving me , rascal , you will be hanged to-morrow. ” “ And if you catch up with them you won ’ t come back to hang me , ” murmured the sergeant .
He arose , and quietly opening the door of the drawing-room , saw Haydée , who had fallen on a chair , with her arms hanging down and her beautiful head thrown back .
Milady was looking out at the window , and pretended not to hear the door as it opened .
Alas , poor Albert !
“ Unfortunately , ” said Monte Cristo , “ one ’ s title to a millionaire does not last for life , like that of baron , peer of France , or academician ; for example , the millionaires Franck & Poulmann , of Frankfurt , who have just become bankrupts. ” “ Indeed ? ” said Danglars , becoming pale .
If your arrangements at Tours are your arrangements , Aramis , those of London are mine .
I began to fear that he would not come .
50117m These last consisted of all the young people whom Valentine ’ s death had struck like a thunderbolt , and who , notwithstanding the raw chilliness of the season , could not refrain from paying a last tribute to the memory of the beautiful , chaste , and adorable girl , thus cut off in the flower of her youth .
“ I am not going there to be imprisoned , ” said Dantès ; “ it is only used for political prisoners .
I assure you I intend to play the devil ’ s game to-night. ” D ’ Artagnan rattled the gold in his pockets .
“ Well , ” resumed Athos , “ swear on this cross , which , in spite of its magnificent material , is still a cross ; swear to be united in spite of everything , and forever , and may this oath bind us to each other , and even , also , our descendants !
“ Olivain , ” said Athos , showing the servant Raoul ’ s shoulder-belt , “ tighten the buckle of the sword , it falls too low .
Paris , this odious Paris , waking up one morning without queen or king , surrounded , besieged , famished—having for its sole resource its stupid parliament and their coadjutor with crooked limbs ! ” “ Charming !
“ I see ! ” said he , “ there are two of them ; one does the work while the other stands guard. ” He made a sign to Ali not to lose sight of the man in the street , and turned to the one in the dressing-room .
D ’ Artagnan threw down a yet-smoking pistol which he held in his hand , and fell on his knees before his mistress .
I have told you , and I repeat it , that to-night we rescue Charles I .
They are .
But when the time came to pay for his rosemary , this oil , and the wine , the only expense the master had incurred , as he had preserved a strict abstinence—while on the contrary , the yellow horse , by the account of the hostler at least , had eaten three times as much as a horse of his size could reasonably be supposed to have done—D ’ Artagnan found nothing in his pocket but his little old velvet purse with the eleven crowns it contained ; for as to the letter addressed to M. de Tréville , it had disappeared .
Who art thou ? ” cried he , clasping his hands .
“ Maximilian ! ” she exclaimed , and so sweet did the sound appear to her , that she repeated it— “ Maximilian ! —has he then owned all to you ? ” “ Everything .
Did anybody order you to prevent that woman from singing ?
Morrel has always been exceedingly kind to me , ” replied Dantès .
Giving the sailor a piece of money in return for his civility , Dantès proceeded onwards ; but ere he had gone many steps he heard the man loudly calling him to stop .
The Musketeer was introduced to M. Coquenard , whose little gray eyes sparkled with anger at seeing his cousin all blazing new .
“ You do not belong to the human species ; you are a demon escaped from hell , whither we send you back again. ” “ Ah , you virtuous men ! ” said Milady ; “ please to remember that he who shall touch a hair of my head is himself an assassin. ” “ The executioner may kill , without being on that account an assassin , ” said the man in the red cloak , rapping upon his immense sword .
Speak , then , I am all ears. ” D ’ Artagnan related his adventure with Mme .
When this crisis was past , when Milady appeared to have resumed her self-possession , which she had never lost ; when Felton had seen her recover with the veil of chastity those treasures of love which were only concealed from him to make him desire them the more ardently , he said , “ Ah , now !
“ Oh , yes !
Then I confess to you that I have eaten nothing since ten o ’ clock this morning , and I am devilish hungry. ” “ We will dine directly , my friend ; only you must please to remember that this is Friday .
How comes it , that having both a sister and an adopted son , you have never spoken to me of either ? ” 20323m “ Alas , I have still to recount the most distressing period of my life .
Well , I will live , if you promise me still to hope ; and if you grant me the care of your future prospects , you will redouble my strength .
My father and M. Danglars served together in Spain , my father in the army and M. Danglars in the commissariat department .
The mother and daughter passed the night together .
He took his army to the priest ’ s , where they devoured as much provision as would have lasted him for two months , and to the cornet ’ s , who performed wonders ; but as Planchet said , “ People do not eat at once for all time , even when they eat a good deal. ” D ’ Artagnan thus felt himself humiliated in having only procured one meal and a half for his companions—as the breakfast at the priest ’ s could only be counted as half a repast—in return for the feasts which Athos , Porthos , and Aramis had procured him .
Men may subdue men—they can not overcome the elements .
yes , I know that , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and you mentioned it to me ; but who knows what has become of him ?
“ Kill myself ? ” he cried , throwing down his knife ; “ why should I do so ? ” “ Why , you said , ” answered Mademoiselle Danglars , “ that you would be condemned to die like the worst criminals. ” 50055m “ Bah , ” said Cavalcanti , crossing his arms , “ one has friends. ” The brigadier advanced to him , sword in hand .
The baron adored Count Andrea Cavalcanti ; not so Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars .
It seemed as though Rome , under the magic breath of some demon of the night , had suddenly changed into a vast tomb .
She heard him enter , but she did not raise her head .
Seek quietude and oblivion , so that you may return peaceably to France after a few years .
“ Silence ! ” said the young woman , placing her hand upon his lips ; “ silence , and go the same way you came ! ” “ But where and when shall I see you again ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
I want recommendations and some information relative to Africa .
Monsieur is , as usual , led by his favorite ; yesterday it was Choisy , to-day it is La Riviere , to-morrow it will be some one else .
but it is your own fault .
“ M .
I am Captain Dantès , a loyal Frenchman , thought accused of treason ; tell me where you are conducting me , and I promise you on my honor I will submit to my fate. ” The gendarme looked irresolutely at his companion , who returned for answer a sign that said , “ I see no great harm in telling him now , ” and the gendarme replied : “ You are a native of Marseilles , and a sailor , and yet you do not know where you are going ? ” “ On my honor , I have no idea. ” “ Have you no idea whatever ? ” “ None at all. ” “ That is impossible. ” “ I swear to you it is true .
Whose is the ocean upon which we look ?
But you have been traveling these four days , as you told me yourself .
The count went out first , then Albert .
“ I think , on the contrary , that it is a charming night , ” replied the countess , “ and those who are here will complain of but one thing , that of its too rapid flight. ” “ I am not speaking , ” said the duke with a smile , “ of the persons who are here ; the men run no other danger than that of falling in love with you , and the women of falling ill of jealousy at seeing you so lovely ; I meant persons who were out in the streets of Rome. ” “ Ah , ” asked the countess , “ who is out in the streets of Rome at this hour , unless it be to go to a ball ? ” “ Our friend , Albert de Morcerf , countess , whom I left in pursuit of his unknown about seven o ’ clock this evening , ” said Franz , “ and whom I have not seen since. ” “ And don ’ t you know where he is ? ” “ Not at all. ” “ Is he armed ? ” “ He is in masquerade. ” “ You should not have allowed him to go , ” said the duke to Franz ; “ you , who know Rome better than he does. ” “ You might as well have tried to stop number three of the _barberi_ , who gained the prize in the race today , ” replied Franz ; “ and then moreover , what could happen to him ? ” “ Who can tell ?
Albert ’ s love had not taken away his appetite .
The noiseless door again turned on its hinges , and the Count of Monte Cristo reappeared .
As we have said , he perfectly understood the old man ’ s vocabulary , and if he did not use it more often , it was only indifference and _ennui_ which prevented him from so doing .
Thus Villefort passed through the mass of spectators and officers of the Palais , and withdrew .
Well , the French did not avenge themselves on the traitor , the Spaniards did not shoot the traitor , Ali in his tomb left the traitor unpunished ; but I , betrayed , sacrificed , buried , have risen from my tomb , by the grace of God , to punish that man .
“ But , ” asked the visitor , “ do you know why he came to France ? ” “ He is speculating in railways , ” said Lord Wilmore , “ and as he is an expert chemist and physicist , he has invented a new system of telegraphy , which he is seeking to bring to perfection. ” “ How much does he spend yearly ? ” asked the prefect .
The enemy ’ s army extended from Cassel to Courtray ; and as there was no species of violence or pillage it did not commit , the poor people on the frontier quitted their isolated dwellings and fled for refuge into the strong cities which held out a shelter to them .
Bazin quickly covered the table with a damask cloth and arranged upon it so many things , gilded , perfumed , appetizing , that D ’ Artagnan was quite overcome .
He was one of those men who do not rashly court danger , but if danger presents itself , combat it with the most unalterable coolness .
Go , and take this key with you ; you are active , vigorous , and you have arms .
Pretty , mysterious , initiated in almost all the secrets of the court , which reflected such a charming gravity over her pleasing features , it might be surmised that she was not wholly unmoved ; and this is an irresistible charm to novices in love .
“ Ridiculous ? ” repeated he ; “ and the ridicule will fall on me .
But the duke is our friend. ” “ The duke is English ; the duke fights against us .
Tell the angel who will watch over your future destiny , Morrel , to pray sometimes for a man , who , like Satan , thought himself for an instant equal to God , but who now acknowledges with Christian humility that God alone possesses supreme power and infinite wisdom .
ah ! ” said the coadjutor , “ you are avaricious , my good fellow. ” The mendicant sighed and threw down the bag .
Villefort walked to and fro behind them .
Well , Planchet , how is the good Monsieur de Wardes ?
Charles smiled .
Morrel advanced with a firm , manly tread , and poor Barrois followed him as he best might .
There was no more to do in the room , so the poisoner retired stealthily , as though fearing to hear the sound of her own footsteps ; but as she withdrew she still held aside the curtain , absorbed in the irresistible attraction always exerted by the picture of death , so long as it is merely mysterious and does not excite disgust .
If the lemonade be pure and inoffensive , the syrup will retain its color ; if , on the contrary , the lemonade be drugged with poison , the syrup will become green .
“ No , ” said Porthos , “ I expected some gentlemen of the neighborhood , who have just sent me word they could not come .
“ And I set off without waiting for one , but he called me back and gave me this ; ” and he presented a little leather bag , plump and giving out a golden jingle .
“ Here are five hundred pistoles , ” he said ; “ and if the action goes off well you may reckon upon a similar sum to-morrow. ” “ I will give a faithful account of the sum to your lordship , ” said Planchet , putting the bag under his arm .
how he has shrunk since he gave up the name of Porthos ! ” “ This can not be Monsieur Porthos , ” observed Planchet replying , as it were , to his master ’ s thoughts .
“ Send your saddle , then , to the hôtel of the Musketeers , and your horse can be brought back with ours. ” “ Very well ; but it is already five o ’ clock , so make haste. ” A quarter of an hour afterward Porthos appeared at the end of the Rue Férou on a very handsome _genet_ .
“ Yes ; but it is not a horse for hard work. ” “ You are mistaken ; I rode him nearly ten leagues in less than an hour and a half , and he appeared no more distressed than if he had only made the tour of the Place St. Sulpice. ” “ Ah , you begin to awaken my regret. ” “ Regret ? ” “ Yes ; I have parted with him. ” “ How ? ” “ Why , here is the simple fact .
“ Oh , sir !
“ To present our respects to the cardinal. ” Porthos swallowed the second glass with the same grace with which he had imbibed the first , took his beaver and followed D ’ Artagnan .
“ I wish to inform you , my lord , ” replied Groslow , with an Irish accent , feigned of course , “ that if you are looking for Captain Rogers you will not find him .
“ Why , then , doesn ’ t he attend to it himself , as at Chantilly ? ” “ Ah , monsieur , I have not here , as I had there , the ponds of monsieur le prince , where I could catch those beautiful carp , nor the forests of his highness to provide me with partridges .
Conferences .
The affair was described to the messenger with all the effervescence of enthusiasm .
One might have fancied that Athos had educated him with the express forethought of such a great event .
The world will think you abandoned and poor , for the wife of a bankrupt would never be forgiven , were she to keep up an appearance of opulence .
It was a tolerably fine winter ’ s day , and a ray of that pale English sun which lights but does not warm came through the bars of her prison .
No , Fernand , you will not thus give way to evil thoughts .
Besides , his presenting you the cup under the name of Lord Ruthven—— ” “ Oh , but that is dreadful !
I will embrace your knees !
To be a bishop ? ” “ Aramis , ” answered D ’ Artagnan , who did not wish to undeceive Porthos , “ Aramis , fancy , has become a monk and a Jesuit , and lives like a bear .
“ Oh , very shortly , madame , ” said he ; “ but I do not precisely recollect the date of the day .
“ Ah , pardon !
Athos and D ’ Artagnan watched their approach from the window .
“ Yes , yes , ” continued he , “ ’ Twill be the same as it was in England .
“ That is true , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ let us call the others. ” They returned around the house to fetch Porthos and Aramis .
It frequently occurs in a state prison like this , that persons are stationed outside the doors of the cells purposely to overhear the conversation of the prisoners. ” “ But they believe I am shut up alone here. ” “ That makes no difference. ” “ And you say that you dug your way a distance of fifty feet to get here ? ” “ I do ; that is about the distance that separates your chamber from mine ; only , unfortunately , I did not curve aright ; for want of the necessary geometrical instruments to calculate my scale of proportion , instead of taking an ellipsis of forty feet , I made it fifty .
He has faith in himself ; he has faith in his friends ; he wishes also to have faith in his queen .
At length , through the window of a little hut , they showed me a woman sitting , leaning on a table , and said , ‘ there is the person to be executed. ’ ” “ Horrible ! ” said the monk .
He was a man between sixty-six and sixty-eight years of age , little , rather stout , with gray hair and light eyes .
“ Ah , that ’ s it ! ” he cried , “ you have your promotion and I my barony. ” “ We are going to fetch our brevets , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ and when we come back , Master Mazarin will sign them. ” “ And where are we going ? ” asked Porthos .
At any other time Valentine would have seized the silken bell-pull and summoned assistance , but nothing astonished her in her present situation .
Will you tell me what you require , in order to set your conscience quite at ease on the subject ? ” “ In order to render an act valid , I must be certain of the approbation or disapprobation of my client .
But what detains her ?
He has even a name taken from the book , since he calls himself Sinbad the Sailor , and has a cave filled with gold. ” “ And you have seen this cavern , Morcerf ? ” asked Beauchamp .
I name only the most important. ” “ You are , doubtless , acquainted with a variety of languages , so as to have been able to read all these ? ” “ Yes , I speak five of the modern tongues—that is to say , German , French , Italian , English , and Spanish ; by the aid of ancient Greek I learned modern Greek—I don ’ t speak it so well as I could wish , but I am still trying to improve myself. ” “ Improve yourself ! ” repeated Dantès ; “ why , how can you manage to do so ? ” “ Why , I made a vocabulary of the words I knew ; turned , returned , and arranged them , so as to enable me to express my thoughts through their medium .
He smiles at them .
He would be in despair if that should come to the ears of the king ; and as the wound is very serious , seeing that after crossing the shoulder it penetrates into the chest , it is to be feared— ” At this instant the tapestry was raised and a noble and handsome head , but frightfully pale , appeared under the fringe .
To see him so self-satisfied reconciles me with myself .
Gentlemen , ” continued the baroness , “ among the ten horses in the stables of Baron Danglars , are two that belong exclusively to me—a pair of the handsomest and most spirited creatures to be found in Paris .
“ Eh ?
The carriage in which a Broussel is to be arrested ought to be able to bear ten thousand men. ” “ What are your commands , lieutenant ? ” “ Take the detachment and conduct him to his place. ” “ But you will be left alone ? ” “ Certainly .
I strode past her , and ascended to the sleeping chamber , which presented an appearance of the wildest disorder .
“ Alas , anything you please .
“ She is to correspond with nobody ; she is to speak to no one but you—if you will do her the honor to address a word to her. ” “ That is sufficient , my Lord !
Are you not the soldier Fernand who deserted on the eve of the battle of Waterloo ?
“ Well , then , let us say no more about it , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and let us burn this letter , which , no doubt , announces to you some fresh infidelity of your _grisette_ or your chambermaid. ” “ What letter ? ” cried Aramis , eagerly .
Aramis !
He had sent away his carriage with orders for it to fetch him at two o ’ clock ; fortunately the Palazzo Bracciano , which is on one side in the Corso , and on the other in the Square of the Holy Apostles , is hardly ten minutes ’ walk from the Hôtel de Londres .
Happily , D ’ Artagnan was not yet acquainted with such niceties .
There was a great deal going on that morning , and many business-like persons at the Palais ; business-like persons pay very little attention to women , and Madame Danglars crossed the hall without exciting any more attention than any other woman calling upon her lawyer .
D ’ Artagnan perceived him one day walking toward the church of St. Leu , and followed him instinctively .
that knife , give it to me for a minute only , for mercy ’ s , for pity ’ s sake !
“ Your eminence , ” he said , “ might have dispensed with your attendants ; the honor bestowed on me is too great for me to be unmindful of it. ” “ And so , my dear count , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ his eminence didn ’ t actually insist on our attending him ; it is Du Vallon and I who have insisted , and even in a manner somewhat impolite , perhaps , so great was our longing to see you. ” At that voice , that mocking tone , and that familiar gesture , accenting voice and tone , Athos made a bound of surprise .
The Lions ’ Den One division of La Force , in which the most dangerous and desperate prisoners are confined , is called the court of Saint-Bernard .
Buckingham had returned to London ; Mme .
The cardinal envied that composure , which he attributed to the habit of meeting danger ; but none the less he conceived for the officer under whose orders he had for the moment placed himself , that consideration which even prudence pays to careless courage .
The king thanked M. de Tréville , and permitted him to distribute furloughs for four days , on condition that the favored parties should not appear in any public place , under penalty of the Bastille .
He placed the casket on the table ; then opening it took out a little golden box , the top of which flew open when touched by a secret spring .
“ I have sent for one , ” replied the abbé .
At daybreak he awoke and took a turn around his room .
This did not prevent the king from being as complacent to him as possible whenever he met him , or from asking in the kindest tone , “ Well , Monsieur Cardinal , how fares it with that poor Jussac and that poor Bernajoux of yours ? ” Chapter VII .
“ Here , doctor , ” said he , “ is what you sent me for. ” “ Was this prepared in your presence ? ” “ Yes , ” replied the procureur .
To-day I am engaged in a different affair .
Bread and Salt Chapter 72 .
They were waiting at the entrance of the Rue Sainte Catharine , and their horses were fastened to the rings of the arcade .
That is why Valentine passed through her room , which was on a level with Valentine ’ s , and only separated from it by Edward ’ s .
Then , by the gleam of a lamp , similar to that which lighted the columbarium , Albert was to be seen wrapped up in a cloak which one of the bandits had lent him , lying in a corner in profound slumber .
“ And with what did you contrive to make that ? ” inquired Dantès .
Here are thirty francs ; I will sleep at the _Cheval Rouge_ , and will secure a place in the first coach .
under orders from General Cromwell .
Now , M. Bertuccio is alone in the world ; he uses my property without accounting for the use he makes of it ; he is sure never to leave my service. ” “ Why ? ” “ Because I should never get a better. ” “ Probabilities are deceptive. ” “ But I deal in certainties ; he is the best servant over whom one has the power of life and death. ” “ Do you possess that right over Bertuccio ? ” “ Yes. ” There are words which close a conversation with an iron door ; such was the count ’ s “ yes. ” The whole journey was performed with equal rapidity ; the thirty-two horses , dispersed over seven stages , brought them to their destination in eight hours .
The escape was fixed to take place at seven o ’ clock ; there was therefore three-quarters of an hour to wait .
“ Ah , ” said he , between his teeth , “ is there truth in the proverb that fortune comes while one sleeps ? ” “ Follow me , monsieur , ” said Mazarin .
You must have much to tell me , since you have come to seek me. ” 50155m “ Well , be it so .
Alas , alas !
I landed here , regulated the affairs of the vessel , and hastened to visit my affianced bride , whom I found more lovely than ever .
Then he turned to the various articles he had left behind him , put the black cravat and blue frock-coat at the bottom of the portmanteau , threw the hat into a dark closet , broke the cane into small bits and flung it in the fire , put on his travelling-cap , and calling his valet , checked with a look the thousand questions he was ready to ask , paid his bill , sprang into his carriage , which was ready , learned at Lyons that Bonaparte had entered Grenoble , and in the midst of the tumult which prevailed along the road , at length reached Marseilles , a prey to all the hopes and fears which enter into the heart of man with ambition and its first successes .
“ But this is tyranny ! ” cried one of them , in very good French , though with a foreign accent , “ that this madman will not allow these good people access to their own wine !
“ Yes , —if I die ! ” “ Well , Valentine , ” resumed Maximilian , “ I can only say again that you are right .
Splendid lace adorned the falling collar of his shirt , and lace fell also over the top of his boots .
Terror recalled me to myself .
you would no sooner have left prison than your goods would be confiscated. ” “ I shall no sooner be out of prison than I shall be master of Paris. ” “ Pshaw !
During all this time a sentinel , who had been relieved at eight o ’ clock , had been watching his door .
“ Oh , yes. ” “ That is well. ” And Bertuccio , feeling in his pocket , signed to a keeper whom he saw through the window of the wicket .
The glass-cutter had entered , and was feeling his way , his arms stretched out before him .
I was there at a fearful moment .
Milady had , likewise , the best of passports—her beauty , her noble appearance , and the liberality with which she distributed her pistoles .
The man who was with Caderousse was evidently a stranger to the South of France ; he was one of those merchants who come to sell jewellery at the Beaucaire fair , and who during the month the fair lasts , and during which there is so great an influx of merchants and customers from all parts of Europe , often have dealings to the amount of 100,000 to 150,000 francs .
And they continued their way , crossing the barricades , getting the chains about their legs , pushed about , questioning and questioned .
“ Your Eminence may believe , ” added D ’ Artagnan , “ that we would have come to meet you , if we could have supposed it was Monseigneur coming toward us with so few attendants. ” The cardinal bit his mustache , and even his lips a little .
1.E.5 .
But on the following day the family from whom all these particulars had been asked received a handsome present , consisting of an entirely new fishing-boat , with two seines and a tender .
Young men , take advantage of it against the time when you may be in command. ” “ But on condition , ” continued the prisoner , “ that your highness will swear that my life shall be safe. ” “ Upon my honor , ” said the prince .
Valentine was ignorant of the cause of this sorrow and anxiety , and as it was not his accustomed hour for visiting her , she had gone to the spot simply by accident or perhaps through sympathy .
“ My father thought that this action had been miraculously performed—he believed that a benefactor had arisen from the grave to save us .
“ Which means , ” resumed Aramis , that he might perfectly understand , “ ‘ The two hands are indispensable for priests of the inferior orders , when they bestow the benediction. ’ ” “ An admirable subject ! ” cried the Jesuit .
“ Are you displeased with me ? ” cried Valentine in astonishment .
I am here ; what do you want with me ? ” And at these words , the Musketeer , in irreproachable costume , belted as usual , with a tolerably firm step , entered the cabinet .
He was no longer astonished when he searched on to find in the register this note , placed in a bracket against his name : Edmond Dantès .
“ Well , ” said Porthos , “ I will run to the hôtel , and engage our comrades to hold themselves in readiness by eight o ’ clock ; the rendezvous , the Place du Palais-Cardinal .
“ At least you don ’ t speak well of him. ” “ That is because I am not his friend , ” said she , sighing , “ but his victim ! ” “ But this letter in which he recommends you to me ? ” “ Is an order for me to confine myself to a sort of prison , from which he will release me by one of his satellites. ” “ But why have you not fled ? ” “ Whither should I go ?
Giving him to understand that the police would deal with him pretty severely for having sought a quarrel with a great lord—for in the opinion of the host the stranger could be nothing less than a great lord—he insisted that notwithstanding his weakness D ’ Artagnan should get up and depart as quickly as possible .
Should it not be found in the possession of father or son , then it will assuredly be discovered in the cabin belonging to the said Dantès on board the _Pharaon_. ’ ” “ But , ” said Renée , “ this letter , which , after all , is but an anonymous scrawl , is not even addressed to you , but to the king ’ s attorney. ” 0093m “ True ; but that gentleman being absent , his secretary , by his orders , opened his letters ; thinking this one of importance , he sent for me , but not finding me , took upon himself to give the necessary orders for arresting the accused party. ” “ Then the guilty person is absolutely in custody ? ” said the marquise .
He resolved , then , to defend the door bravely ; and as , betrayed by the mistress of the inn , he could not say that Aramis was absent , he endeavored to prove to the newcomer that it would be the height of indiscretion to disturb his master in his pious conference , which had commenced with the morning and would not , as Bazin said , terminate before night .
No , divided as we now are , we must perish .
“ Well , then , sleep in peace , and put your trust in the Lord. ” As we have before said , the post-chaise was waiting ; four powerful horses were already pawing the ground with impatience , while Ali , apparently just arrived from a long walk , was standing at the foot of the steps , his face bathed in perspiration .
On the sixteenth day , in particular , these signs were so strong in D ’ Artagnan and his two friends that they could not remain quiet in one place , and wandered about like ghosts on the road by which Planchet was expected .
Julie trembled at this request , which seemed to her of bad omen .
She was as well acquainted with it now as a mistress is with that of the lover of her heart ; and yet Milady at the same time detested and despised this weak fanatic .
Difficult for Kings to return to the Capitals of their Kingdoms .
Oh , succor him !
“ Worthy fellows ! ” said Morrel , as he went away , “ may your new master love you as I loved you , and be more fortunate than I have been ! ” 20049m August rolled by in unceasing efforts on the part of Morrel to renew his credit or revive the old .
Then , the effort having exhausted her strength , she fell , not asleep this time , but fainting on the floor .
They deposited the supposed corpse on the bier .
“ How so ? ” returned the count , with surprise .
The abbé told us it was worth 50,000 without the setting. ’ “ ‘ What was the abbé ’ s name ? ’ asked the indefatigable questioner .
While D ’ Artagnan was examining Mme .
The cardinal knocked three times , and in a peculiar manner .
What does the angel of light or the angel of darkness say to that mind , at once implacable and generous ?
Women weep for the dead ; men avenge them ! ” “ Oh , yes ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ yes !
But the night passed away without any fresh attempt on the part of my persecutor .
Allow me to compliment you on your knowledge ; such learning is very rare among ladies. ” “ Oh , I am aware of that , ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ but I have a passion for the occult sciences , which speak to the imagination like poetry , and are reducible to figures , like an algebraic equation ; but go on , I beg of you ; what you say interests me to the greatest degree. ” 30069m “ Well , ” replied Monte Cristo “ suppose , then , that this poison was brucine , and you were to take a milligramme the first day , two milligrammes the second day , and so on .
Now that she believed herself to be no longer observed , a sentiment resembling ferocity animated her countenance .
Noirtier looked at her with a glance of the most profound scrutiny .
One day the old man fell ill and died .
Neither Mercédès nor Edmond observed the strange expression of his countenance ; they were so happy that they were conscious only of the sunshine and the presence of each other .
Adieu. ” “ I entreat you , doctor ! ” “ All the horrors that disturb my thoughts make your house odious and fatal .
“ Will you assure me it shall not be signed ? ” “ Yes , ” said Noirtier .
One of them , stationed upon the top stair , naked sword in hand , prevented , or at least endeavored to prevent , the three others from ascending .
The victory was complete ; twice he had overcome his doubts .
“ You thought to escape my munificence , but it is in vain .
But when the cardinal added that not only Mme .
Do not seek to assist me in that which I am accomplishing .
“ Yes , monsieur ; I am on the point of marrying a young girl I have been attached to for three years. ” Villefort , impassive as he was , was struck with this coincidence ; and the tremulous voice of Dantès , surprised in the midst of his happiness , struck a sympathetic chord in his own bosom—he also was on the point of being married , and he was summoned from his own happiness to destroy that of another .
“ Indeed , sir , ” said he to Albert , “ if you are come to quarrel with this gentleman because I have preferred him to you , I shall resign the case to the king ’ s attorney. ” “ You mistake , sir , ” said Morcerf with a gloomy smile ; “ I am not referring in the least to matrimony , and I only addressed myself to M. Cavalcanti because he appeared disposed to interfere between us .
Do you permit me to return ? ” “ Yes , to-morrow. ” The cardinal took the queen ’ s hand and pressed it with an air of gallantry to his lips .
“ The 28th of February. ” “ In what year ? ” “ In what year—you ask me in what year ? ” “ Yes , ” replied the young man , “ I ask you in what year ! ” “ You have forgotten then ? ” “ I got such a fright last night , ” replied Dantès , smiling , “ that I have almost lost my memory .
“ And it is thus heaven recompenses virtue , sir , ” added Caderousse .
“ Bless me , ” murmured Baron Danglars , “ this must surely be a prince instead of a count by their styling him ‘ excellency , ’ and only venturing to address him by the medium of his valet de chambre .
The Frenchman made some resistance , and nearly strangled Beppo ; but he could not resist five armed men , and was forced to yield .
No .
The most perfect tranquillity was restored , and the vigilance of the custom-house officers was redoubled , and their strictness was increased at this time , in consequence of the fair at Beaucaire .
The blow , so they tell me at least , was struck with a master ’ s hand. ” Mordaunt remembered that Cromwell had told him he had had no detailed account , and he was now quite convinced that the general had been present at the execution , hidden behind some screen or curtain .
The next day must clear up every doubt ; and unless his near neighbor and would-be friend , the Count of Monte Cristo , possessed the ring of Gyges , and by its power was able to render himself invisible , it was very certain he could not escape this time .
Franz added that his companion , deeply grieved at having been prevented the honor of being presented to the countess during her sojourn in Paris , was most anxious to make up for it , and had requested him ( Franz ) to remedy the past misfortune by conducting him to her box , and concluded by asking pardon for his presumption in having taken it upon himself to do so .
Are you a doctor ? ” “ Yes ; the best you could have at the present time , believe me. ” “ But you say you have watched ? ” said Valentine uneasily ; “ where have you been ? —I have not seen you. ” The count extended his hand towards the library .
Midnight struck .
The carriage pursued its way , still going at a great pace , till it dashed into Paris , and disappeared .
Go , D ’ Artagnan , go ; Grimaud will accompany you with his musketoon. ” A half hour afterward , D ’ Artagnan returned with the two thousand livres , and without having met with any accident .
We have already observed with what rapidity D ’ Artagnan seized the expression of a countenance .
“ Sir , ” replied he , “ if you came to me with the idea of demanding satisfaction , you should have gone at once to the point , and not have entertained me with the idle conversation to which I have been patiently listening for the last half hour .
At dawn twelve leagues had been passed without drawing rein ; half the escort were exhausted and several horses fell down .
You are young .
“ See what she writes to me , Athos , ” said he .
“ As for me , when I have no candle I can ’ t take two steps without knocking against something. ” “ That ’ s because you haven ’ t served , ” said Mousqueton .
Ah , Valentine , tell me , if he ever looked on you with one of those sweet smiles ?
He was certainly the tall young man with light hair , red beard , black eyes , and brilliant complexion , whom his master had so particularly described to him .
He was a man of twenty-five or six , and held a piece of cloth , which , being a tailor , he was about to make into a coat-lining .
Now , we must have badly painted the character of our adventure seeker , or our readers must have already perceived that D ’ Artagnan was not an ordinary man ; therefore , while repeating to himself that his death was inevitable , he did not make up his mind to die quietly , as one less courageous and less restrained might have done in his place .
It was necessary to separate .
“ And whose horses are these ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The same evening all Villefort ’ s servants , who had assembled in the kitchen , and had a long consultation , came to tell Madame de Villefort that they wished to leave .
D ’ Artagnan had run , sword in hand , through all the neighboring streets , but had found nobody resembling the man he sought for .
“ Was it not agreed , ” asked the count , “ that not only my person , but also that of my friends , should be respected by you ? ” “ And how have I broken that treaty , your excellency ? ” “ You have this evening carried off and conveyed hither the Viscount Albert de Morcerf .
Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms from this work , or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™ .
I do not reproach you , Athos , for what you have done .
We know that the dream of his life had been to become a Musketeer .
Is he a deputy ? ” “ Oh , no .
Do you know that , monsieur ? ” “ The king commands it , madame ; excuse me. ” “ I will not suffer it !
replied : ‘ Now as to the worthy cardinals , Spada and Rospigliosi , let us ask both of them to dinner , something tells me that we shall get that money back .
On his return from the Vatican , Franz carefully avoided the Corso ; he brought away with him a treasure of pious thoughts , to which the mad gayety of the maskers would have been profanation .
did not touch those hearts of stone ; not one man stirred , so Monsieur de Beaufort was obliged to be satisfied with calling them all kinds of rascals underneath the sun .
As soon as I have done I will knock on one of the panes of glass .
“ My first impressions were favorable to the minister ; I said to myself that a minister is never loved , but that with the genius this one was said to have he would eventually triumph over his enemies and would make himself feared , which in my opinion is much more to be desired than to be loved—— ” D ’ Artagnan made a sign with his head which indicated that he entirely approved that doubtful maxim .
“ You have no money coming in on which you can rely ? ” “ None. ” “ You have exhausted every resource ? ” “ All. ” “ And in half an hour , ” said Maximilian in a gloomy voice , “ our name is dishonored ! ” “ Blood washes out dishonor , ” said Morrel .
“ Against calumniators , ” said M. de Tréville .
What are you going to do this evening ? ” “ We intend to visit the Abbé Scarron , for whom I have a letter of introduction and at whose house I expect to meet some of my friends. ” “ ’ Tis well ; I will go there also , for a few minutes , ” said the duchess ; “ do not quit his salon until you have seen me. ” Athos bowed and prepared to leave .
Monte Cristo saw him advance towards him without making a single step .
“ I swear to you , princess , that if your reputation did not depend on precautions and if my life alone were jeopardized—— ” “ Yes , yes !
D ’ ARTAGNAN SHOWS HIMSELF Chapter X .
“ Oh , you are a man of God , sir , ” cried Caderousse ; “ for no one knew that Edmond had given you this diamond , and you might have kept it. ” “ Which , ” said the abbé to himself , “ you would have done. ” The abbé rose , took his hat and gloves .
No more theses , no more glosses upon the fingers or upon benedictions , hey ? ” Aramis smiled .
“ ’ Tis true ! ” thought the Gascon , “ where has he heard it ?
This same person , with almost incredible patience and perseverance , had contrived to provide himself with tools requisite for so unparalleled an attempt .
Mousqueton was a Norman , whose pacific name of Boniface his master had changed into the infinitely more sonorous name of Mousqueton .
“ Besides , by the faith of Bonacieux— ” “ You call yourself Bonacieux ? ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan .
Just as the court was settling down in the cathedral , a carriage , bearing the arms of Comminges , quitted the line of the court carriages and proceeded slowly to the end of the Rue Saint Christophe , now entirely deserted .
Alas !
“ Milady ’ s son , ” replied Athos .
I owe to this worthy lord all the happiness I ever knew .
“ Does not your Eminence fear that the punishment inflicted upon Ravaillac may deter anyone who might entertain the idea of imitating him ? ” “ There will be , in all times and in all countries , particularly if religious divisions exist in those countries , fanatics who ask nothing better than to become martyrs .
The Guests In the house in the Rue du Helder , where Albert had invited the Count of Monte Cristo , everything was being prepared on the morning of the 21st of May to do honor to the occasion .
The next day they stopped at the Hôtel de Flandre , at Brussels .
“ I must tell you , ” resumed Mazarin , “ that it is in a double envelope. ” “ I understand ; and I am to take off the first one when I have reached a certain place ? ” “ Just so , take it and go .
but how can the news be brought to you ? ” “ Nothing easier ; in a game of tennis , for example. ” “ In a game of tennis ? ” asked La Ramee , giving more serious attention to the duke ’ s words .
Then Dantès departed for Genoa .
At the door he paused for a moment to wipe his damp , pale brow .
Villefort , drawn by an irresistible attraction , like that of the bird to the serpent , walked towards the house .
And the royal carriage drove on , followed by the other coaches and about fifty horsemen .
What consequence can the reverses of fortune be to you ?
I examined the thicket with my dark lantern ; it was empty .
“ It is absolutely certain that some misfortune has happened to them on the way. ” “ If we have no news of them this evening , to-morrow we must start. ” Athos nodded affirmatively , then turning : “ And Monsieur de Bragelonne , a young man fifteen years of age , attached to the Prince de Condé—has he the honor of being known to you ? ” diffident in allowing the sarcastic Aramis to perceive how strong were his paternal feelings .
my lord bishop , ” he cried , seizing Juxon ’ s hands , “ where is Providence ?
“ If you do not believe that it is my father , say so immediately ; and if , on the contrary , you believe it to be him , state your reasons for doing so. ” Beauchamp looked at Albert with the smile which was so peculiar to him , and which in its numerous modifications served to express every varied emotion of his mind .
Whilst Mordaunt was making his way to Cromwell ’ s tent , D ’ Artagnan and Porthos had brought their prisoners to the house which had been assigned to them as their dwelling at Newcastle .
The order was executed .
He paused , exchanged two words with the sentinel ; then the door opened , and he appeared .
Amidst all these alternations of hope and fear , the clock struck ten .
A small door , close to the lodge of the _concierge_ , gave ingress and egress to the servants and masters when they were on foot .
He stopped at the door ; Villefort gazed at him as if he had some difficulty in recognizing him ; then , after a brief interval , during which the honest shipowner turned his hat in his hands , “ M .
He was No .
Athos took off his hat , placed it on the end of his sword , and waved it in the air .
Then the question was put to him who was the best jailer in all the prisons in France .
You have the window , that is sufficient .
“ Mademoiselle Valentine passed through the room to go to Madame de Villefort ’ s , ” said he ; “ and in passing , as she was thirsty , she drank what remained in the glass ; as for the decanter , Master Edward had emptied that to make a pond for his ducks. ” Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven , as a gambler does who stakes his all on one stroke .
On both sides loud cries arose—on the one side cries of anger , on the other cries of enthusiasm .
As yet he could form no definite plan ; all must depend on circumstances .
“ This is a woman of twenty-six or twenty-eight years. ” “ Fair , ” said Athos , “ is she not ? ” “ Very. ” “ Blue and clear eyes , of a strange brilliancy , with black eyelids and eyebrows ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Tall , well-made ?
But now I am forced to believe in the excess of your kindness , since not only your letter but your servant assures me that I have the good fortune to be beloved by you .
A second time he was disappointed in his expectation .
Where is the child ? ” Villefort shrugged his shoulders .
“ From Madame de Montbazon ? ” he cried .
Coquenard , she could not restrain her tears ; but no evil impressions were taken from her grief as she was known to be very much attached to her relatives , about whom she was constantly having serious disputes with her husband .
another way of getting hanged. ” “ So you refuse my request ? ” “ To be sure I do—furiously ! ” The pretty landlady was desolate .
Ring , then , if you please , for a second knife , fork , and plate , and we will dine together. ” “ Indeed ! ” replied Villefort , looking at his father with astonishment , “ you really do seem very well informed. ” “ Eh ?
He waited ten minutes , a quarter of an hour , half an hour , —no change took place .
I promise you it affords _me_ as little pleasure to revive it as it does you .
Selim was still at his post , and smiled sadly on us as we entered .
“ Poor things ! ” “ Here I am in their name , ” said M. de Boville ; “ but did you receive my letter yesterday ? ” “ Yes. ” “ I have brought my receipt. ” 50111m “ My dear M. de Boville , your widows and orphans must oblige me by waiting twenty-four hours , since M. de Monte Cristo whom you just saw leaving here—you did see him , I think ? ” “ Yes ; well ? ” “ Well , M. de Monte Cristo has just carried off their five millions. ” “ How so ? ” “ The count has an unlimited credit upon me ; a credit opened by Thomson & French , of Rome ; he came to demand five millions at once , which I paid him with checks on the bank .
“ We shall be absent at least a week , ” said the patron , “ and then we must run out of our course to come here and take you up again. ” “ Why , ” said Dantès , “ if in two or three days you hail any fishing-boat , desire them to come here to me .
Franz was too far off to hear what they said ; but , without doubt , nothing hostile passed , for he saw Albert disappear arm-in-arm with the peasant girl .
Albert remarked this , expressing his fears lest , at the outset , the Parisian mode of life should displease the traveller in the most essential point .
good God ! ” added the wounded man , in an accent of terror which made the young men shudder ; “ you will not allow that ?
Her lips were about to pass his sentence of life or death .
her hands are icy cold , ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The latter—a pretty girl of about twenty or twenty-two years , active and lively , the true _soubrette_ of a great lady—jumped from the step upon which , according to the custom of the time , she was seated , and took her way toward the terrace upon which D ’ Artagnan had perceived Lubin .
No .
Faria , the beneficent and cheerful companion , with whom he was accustomed to live so intimately , no longer breathed .
Mme .
Chapter XXXII .
Nevertheless , one day when Monsieur de Beaufort was walking in the meadow his fire was put out , his charcoal all removed , taken away ; and thus his means of drawing utterly destroyed .
“ And I am Madame Héloïse de Villefort. ” The count bowed with the air of a person who hears a name for the first time .
Then put down three hundred livres , ” said the procurator ’ s wife , with a sigh .
This valet , whose name was Germain , and who enjoyed the entire confidence of his young master , held in one hand a number of papers , and in the other a packet of letters , which he gave to Albert .
It was the cannon which announced the closing of the port .
Villefort , being called on to prove the crime , was preparing his brief with the same ardor that he was accustomed to exercise when required to speak in criminal cases .
“ But what can you expect from the brother of a capuchin monk , brought up in the school of Cardinal Richelieu ?
50279m An hour had nearly passed , during which Valentine , breathless and motionless , watched steadfastly over Morrel .
He could , like the king , touch the greatest of us on the head , and touching them make such heads shake on their shoulders .
Necessity has no law ; besides , I am the person punished , as that rascally horsedealer has robbed me of fifty louis , at least .
The two rooms looked on to the street—a fact which Signor Pastrini commented upon as an inappreciable advantage .
She was at length appeased , and the conversation turned upon him while Kitty was assisting her mistress .
She was a nun in the convent of the Benedictines of Templemar .
The old man did not answer , but looked at his master with wild staring eyes , while with his cramped hand he grasped a piece of furniture to enable him to stand upright .
One of them , hat in hand , said to him : “ Would you believe it , monsieur ?
He wished to hasten their steps ; but Athos took his arm and passed it under his own , and the young man was forced to regulate his pace by that of his friend .
Suddenly , about nine o ’ clock in the evening , Edmond heard a hollow sound in the wall against which he was lying .
The day after tomorrow he banishes me , he transports me ; the day after tomorrow he exiles me among the infamous .
How can we be implicated in any way ?
[ 3 ] Knocked on the head .
“ You should furnish him with some of course , ” replied Monte Cristo .
“ Alas !
D ’ Artagnan returned and again attacked him .
As she advanced she fancied she heard a voice speaking her name .
They passed in silence through the little village of Festubert , where the wounded servant was , and then skirted the wood of Richebourg .
At this crisis the whole flooring suddenly gave way , my father fell on one knee , and at the same moment twenty hands were thrust forth , armed with sabres , pistols , and poniards—twenty blows were instantaneously directed against one man , and my father disappeared in a whirlwind of fire and smoke kindled by these demons , and which seemed like hell itself opening beneath his feet .
He also drank half a glass of this sparingly served wine , and found it to be nothing but that horrible Montreuil—the terror of all expert palates .
“ ‘ Stir but a step , ’ said they , ‘ and you are a dead man. ’ “ ‘ Why should you threaten me with death , ’ cried I , ‘ when I have already declared my innocence ? ’ “ ‘ Tush , tush , ’ cried the men ; ‘ keep your innocent stories to tell to the judge at Nîmes .
The domestic peace of this family is henceforth in my hands .
We make in our case a deposit , on a mortgage , which is an advance , as you see , since we gain at least ten , fifteen , twenty , or a hundred livres ’ worth of iron in exchange for our money .
The coward who feared death rejoiced at perpetual disgrace ; for like all galley-slaves , you said , ‘ I may escape from prison , I can not from the grave. ’ And you said truly ; the way was opened for you unexpectedly .
He was particularly anxious to avoid marring the freshness of the magnificent baldric we are acquainted with ; but on timidly opening his eyes , he found himself with his nose fixed between the two shoulders of Porthos—that is to say , exactly upon the baldric .
0213m “ What do you wish to see first ? ” asked the abbé .
Chapter 41 .
“ These are but indifferent marbles in this antechamber , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ It is the truth , however .
D ’ Artagnan began now really to fear that something had happened to Mme .
“ The man of Meung ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , and disappeared .
“ Under what circumstances did we meet ? ” he asked again .
LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it , you can receive a refund of the money ( if any ) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from .
The count stopped on seeing the young man .
“ Do you recognize the carriage ? ” he asked the sergeant .
I have never interfered in your affairs excepting for your good ; treat me in the same way .
It is a chain of recollections—an idea which carries you back to other times , to other places—which , very likely , have no connection with the present time and place .
My sister thanks you for your good and eternal remembrance .
We are carrying too much canvas .
“ Ah , true , ” said Aramis .
They understood , then , from the few words which escaped from D ’ Artagnan , what affair was in hand , and as they thought that overtaking his man , or losing sight of him , D ’ Artagnan would return to his rooms , they kept on their way .
Here and there a dog barked behind a door or an affrighted cat fled precipitately from the midst of the pavement to take refuge behind a pile of faggots , from which retreat her eyes would shine like peridores .
One day , Benedetto , who had been gone from the house since morning , to our great anxiety , did not return until late in the evening , dragging a monkey after him , which he said he had found chained to the foot of a tree .
“ The prime minister , ” she said , “ is obliged in these unsettled days to inform the queen of all that is happening from time to time , without exciting the curiosity or remarks of the court. ” “ But Richelieu never came in this manner , ” said the pertinacious boy .
“ Well , Porthos , follow my examples ; walk back and forth till some news of our friends reaches us or till we are visited by a good idea .
your horse is tired already , he froths at the mouth , whilst mine looks as if he had only just left the stable .
He had found in M. de Busigny , who , by the by , had given them a magnificent dinner , a partner worthy of his company .
But you come from England .
Therefore Kitty surrendered .
Goeden morgen , mynheer , eth teen begeeray le weeten the ge sond heets omstand. ” “ Which means ? ” “ Good-day , sir !
It is needless to add that there were gold and silver fish in the basin .
Anne ’ s head was bent down—she had not seen the Italian ’ s smile ; but finding that her question elicited no reply she looked up .
Albert wandered about the theatre until the curtain was drawn up .
He entered by the Faubourg St. Jacques , under verdant arches .
Such was the state of affairs at the very moment we introduced our readers to the study of Cardinal Mazarin—once that of Cardinal Richelieu .
“ His father was introduced to me as a marquis , so he ought to be a count ; but I do not think he has much claim to that title. ” “ Why ? ” said the banker .
There was a moment ’ s silence , —it was evident that the doctor was examining the dead body .
There could be no doubt she owed this information to the cardinal .
Section 2 .
This news was brought to us .
Is he still as stingy as ever ?
When his son had left him , Morrel remained an instant standing with his eyes fixed on the door ; then putting forth his arm , he pulled the bell .
“ Fire , fire ! ” cried Mordaunt , returning to the group surrounding the two friends .
On his side , however great Franz ’ s desire was to allude to their former interview , the fear of being disagreeable to the man who had loaded him and his friend with kindness prevented him from mentioning it .
It appeared that I was surrounded with unknown dangers into which I was about to fall at every instant .
Poor King Charles !
Not a scintilla of these was lost on Porthos ; and at every one he uttered an exclamation which betrayed to his friend that he had not lost sight of the idea which possessed his brain .
Finally— ” Milady stopped , and a bitter smile passed over her lips .
I saw my father ’ s hand tremble .
He will have fallen asleep waiting for me , or else he will have returned home , where he will have learned that a woman had been there .
“ Beauchamp , my good fellow , you know I am starving , ” said Debray : “ do not set him off on some long story. ” “ Well , I do not prevent your sitting down to table , ” replied Beauchamp , “ Château-Renaud can tell us while we eat our breakfast. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said Morcerf , “ it is only a quarter past ten , and I expect someone else. ” “ Ah , true , a diplomatist ! ” observed Debray .
“ You will make tea for us , Baptistin , ” said the count .
Twenty guards , well mounted , are all that I shall need for my escort. ” “ That is very few , ” said the marshal .
“ You are right , sir , ” said Raoul .
It was almost imperceptible motions of his eyes , fingers placed upon the lips , little assassinating smiles , which really did assassinate the disdained beauty .
They now knew that it required but one hour to take up arms again and one night to reconstruct the barricades .
Thus I was able , thanks to the strategic disposition of my forces , to intercept two couriers from Mazarin to the queen. ” Mazarin listened intently .
He then took his cane , which he had placed against an old cupboard , and went out .
The Duke of Buckingham and his English , masters of the Isle of Ré , continued to besiege , but without success , the citadel St. Martin and the fort of La Prée ; and hostilities with La Rochelle had commenced , two or three days before , about a fort which the Duc d ’ Angoulême had caused to be constructed near the city .
The count soon mastered the mechanism , the gate opened , and he then found himself in a little garden , about twenty feet long by twelve wide , bounded on one side by part of the hedge , which contained the ingenious contrivance we have called a gate , and on the other by the old tower , covered with ivy and studded with wall-flowers .
It was a Masonic sign Caderousse had taught him .
He was a most lovely child , with large blue eyes , of that deep color that harmonizes so well with the blond complexion ; only his hair , which was too light , gave his face a most singular expression , and added to the vivacity of his look , and the malice of his smile .
You are silent ?
Stop , my friend , I have an idea. ” “ Speak , monsieur. ” “ In your place , I would do one thing. ” “ What ? ” “ While his Eminence was seeking for me in Paris , I would take , without sound of drum or trumpet , the road to Picardy , and would go and make some inquiries concerning my three companions .
I rely much on external impressions ; perhaps , with regard to you , they are immaterial , but I should be no artist if I had not some fancies. ” “ Very well , ” replied M. Danglars , who had listened to all this preamble with imperturbable coolness , but without understanding a word , since like every man burdened with thoughts of the past , he was occupied with seeking the thread of his own ideas in those of the speaker .
I may be besieged in my turn , and I shall not be sorry for him to be able to let me enjoy the same advantages with which you gratify your master. ” “ Lord , monsieur !
“ All this will not advance your outfit , ” said Athos ; “ for if I am not mistaken , you have left the best of your apparel with Milady , and she will certainly not have the politeness to return it to you .
And now I think of it , by Heavens , he may have sent the letter itself !
Not a breath of wind now disturbed the heavy atmosphere .
But that ’ s quite enough , gentlemen ; please to understand , that ’ s enough .
Mazarin was a cheat at the card-table .
Chapter 29 .
Thus a new , a stronger , and more inexorable barrier was interposed to cut off the realization of their hopes .
“ Well , Albert , ” said Franz , “ do you feel much inclined to join the revels ?
Six days had already passed out of the ten he had asked from Mordaunt ; he was therefore occupied in revising his reply to Cromwell , when some one knocked gently at the door of communication with the queen ’ s apartments .
Monte Cristo put his head out of the window , exchanged a few words with him in a low tone , and the steward disappeared .
Around him and within him the flight of thought seemed to have stopped ; his energetic mind slumbered , as the body does after extreme fatigue .
“ We never joke , ” replied Peppino , solemn as a Quaker .
Here Edmond was to undergo another trial ; he was to find out whether he could recognize himself , as he had not seen his own face for fourteen years .
The duke was obliged to make as many efforts to awake as he had done to go to sleep ; and La Ramee found him so pale and fatigued that he inquired whether he was ill. “ In fact , ” said one of the guards who had remained in the chamber and had been kept awake by a toothache , brought on by the dampness of the atmosphere , “ my lord has had a very restless night and two or three times , while dreaming , he called for help. ” “ What is the matter with your highness ? ” asked La Ramee .
I will summon him hither. ” “ It is useless ; he would not come up. ” “ To your apartments , perhaps ; but he will not make any difficulty at entering mine. ” The count went to the window of the apartment that looked on to the street , and whistled in a peculiar manner .
“ Are you satisfied , gentlemen ? ” asked Mazarin .
This itinerary possessed another great advantage , —that of leaving Franz at full liberty to indulge his deep reverie upon the subject of Signor Pastrini ’ s story , in which his mysterious host of Monte Cristo was so strangely mixed up .
I shall have nothing to do but to fold my arms !
“ Your betrothed , “ Valentine de Villefort. ” “ P.S.—My poor grandmother gets worse and worse ; yesterday her fever amounted to delirium ; today her delirium is almost madness .
I should like to have seen his face at that moment. ” “ That would have been difficult. ” “ No matter , ” replied De Boville , in supreme good-humor at the certainty of recovering his two hundred thousand francs , — “ no matter , I can fancy it. ” And he shouted with laughter .
Oh , heavens !
But how long have you been here that you are ignorant of all this ? ” “ Since 1811. ” Dantès shuddered ; this man had been four years longer than himself in prison .
“ Tell us about it , ” said Athos , palpitating .
Aim—— ” At this command the mountain of populace thinned so suddenly that D ’ Artagnan could not repress a burst of Homeric laughter .
Mousqueton ! ” “ Sir , ” answered a voice from the depths of the earth .
“ Well , then , the Frenchman took off his mask ; Teresa , with the chief ’ s consent , did the same .
He embraced Juxon and pressed the hand of Aramis .
There is a congestion of prisoners in the Bastile , who were cooped up in the time of Monsieur de Richelieu ; I don ’ t even know their names. ” “ Yes , but in regard to myself , my lord , it can not be so , for I was removed from the Chatelet to the Bastile owing to an order from your eminence. ” “ You think you were. ” “ I am certain of it. ” “ Ah , stay !
We must be expeditious .
tell me—where ? ” “ There !
All this while Groslow and his men were assembled on deck .
“ What ’ s the matter ? ” asked Aramis .
Near the Louvre the four friends met with M. de Tréville , who was returning from St. Germain ; he stopped them to offer his compliments upon their appointments , which in an instant drew round them a hundred gapers .
These thoughts , gilded as they were by a last reflection of love , were not the less sad .
Before daybreak he would awake , leave the inn after rigorously paying his bill , and reaching the forest , he would , under pretence of making studies in painting , test the hospitality of some peasants , procure himself the dress of a woodcutter and a hatchet , casting off the lion ’ s skin to assume that of the woodman ; then , with his hands covered with dirt , his hair darkened by means of a leaden comb , his complexion embrowned with a preparation for which one of his old comrades had given him the recipe , he intended , by following the wooded districts , to reach the nearest frontier , walking by night and sleeping in the day in the forests and quarries , and only entering inhabited regions to buy a loaf from time to time .
The Champs-Élysées ?
“ It is excellent advice .
But what will be reported of the sudden death of the poor old servant ? ” “ True , ” said M. d ’ Avrigny ; “ we will return. ” The doctor went out first , followed by M. de Villefort .
If you went to Spain , would you not see the bull-fights ?
It has so chanced that I met with a Spaniard in my peregrinations who had seen many countries , and among them the New World. ” “ What connection can the New World have with the bottles which are on the commode and the wardrobe ? ” “ Patience , monsieur , everything will come in its turn. ” “ This Spaniard had in his service a lackey who had accompanied him in his voyage to Mexico .
“ I have , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , pulling out his treasure from his pocket , and placing it on the table .
What can have happened , then , to Bragelonne ? ” “ Let him enter , ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ let him come up. ” But Grimaud had already mounted the staircase and was waiting on the last step ; so springing into the room he motioned the host to leave it .
The man in the mask stopped before a low door and drew out a key ; but before he placed it in the lock he turned around to see if he was being followed .
“ In ’ 43 , ” he said , “ just before the death of the late cardinal , I received a letter from Athos .
Upon issuing forth from his subterranean retreat at the expiration of five minutes , he found the abbé seated upon a wooden stool , leaning his elbow on a table , while Margotin , whose animosity seemed appeased by the unusual command of the traveller for refreshments , had crept up to him , and had established himself very comfortably between his knees , his long , skinny neck resting on his lap , while his dim eye was fixed earnestly on the traveller ’ s face .
Thy God shall teach thee to repent !
It is mine , and I am at liberty to dispose of it .
What can the chancellor have to say to me that your Majesty could not say yourself ? ” The king turned upon his heel without reply , and almost at the same instant the captain of the Guards , M. de Guitant , announced the visit of the chancellor .
His noble nature felt that their ignorance was a sort of reflection upon them .
Meantime Aramis had drawn near to the coadjutor , who , smiling all the while , contrived to drop some words into his ear .
I confess this staggers me. ” “ And it has staggered everybody .
Had she one redeeming trait ?
If they were not yet to be seen , it was because the road made an elbow .
D ’ Artagnan awakened Planchet and ordered him to open it .
“ Adieu ; or rather , _au revoir_. ” The mendicant continued to rip his garments ; and drew from amid his rags a hundred and fifty Spanish double pistoles , which he laid down on the table ; then he opened the door , bowed , and went out before the young man , stupefied by his letter , had ventured to address a word to him .
“ Explain yourself , my lord , I am listening. ” “ The queen has resolved to make a little excursion with the king to Saint Germain. ” “ Aha ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that is to say , the queen wishes to leave Paris. ” “ A woman ’ s caprice—you understand. ” “ Yes , I understand perfectly , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Edmond , ” continued she , “ you will see that if my face is pale , if my eyes are dull , if my beauty is gone ; if Mercédès , in short , no longer resembles her former self in her features , you will see that her heart is still the same .
“ Very brave , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ I have seen him sleep with a sword suspended over his head. ” “ And I know he has fought two duels , ” said Morrel .
Felton , in his turn a suppliant , clasped his hands .
40194m Business had already been going on for half an hour when he entered .
“ Well , Eugénie , what is it you want with me ?
Two of his comrades of the Guards immediately sprang forward , and two other soldiers having joined them , the number was deemed sufficient .
“ And do you know whither he went ? ” “ No , not precisely ; however , I think it was something very like a rendezvous. ” “ _Diavolo ! _ ” said the duke , “ this is a bad day , or rather a bad night , to be out late ; is it not , countess ? ” These words were addressed to the Countess G—— , who had just arrived , and was leaning on the arm of Signor Torlonia , the duke ’ s brother .
and what a strange air for a victor ! ” “ But you , ” answered Porthos , “ seem to me agitated. ” “ There ’ s a reason !
I was dancing the galop at Torlonia ’ s with the Countess G——. ” Then he drew his watch from his pocket , that he might see how time sped .
The king was closeted with the cardinal , and M. de Tréville was informed that the king was busy and could not receive him at that moment .
“ Comte de la Fere ! ” the man cried out ; “ Chevalier d ’ Herblay !
The chocolate was inoffensive , for M. de Villefort felt no effects .
“ What ! ” said Cromwell , arresting him for a moment as he arose ; “ is there nothing more you wish ?
It is for me to give orders here , and not you. ” “ Monsieur , ” replied Dantès proudly , “ it was only to summon assistance for you. ” “ I want none ; it was a temporary indisposition .
I am not one of those tyrants who detain women by force .
“ Now pass your arm through this opening. ” “ Why ? ” “ You will know presently—pass it. ” Porthos obeyed with military promptness and passed his arm through the opening .
He ran up the steps , entered the church , and addressing a verger who was sweeping the chapel , asked him if he knew Monsieur Bazin .
Besides , I have promised him your patronage. ” “ You are right , ” said the duke .
At last his patience was exhausted .
Ten minutes sufficed for their defeat , and D ’ Artagnan remained master of the field of battle .
“ Let us wait , by all means .
“ Ho !
Noirtier ’ s eye was fixed on the dictionary .
then you must have something on your mind ! ” said Athos .
The Castle of Bragelonne .
Adieu , mademoiselle .
That is enough to drive away all my pains ; I could mount him with thirty balls in my body .
Since you demand my resignation , I retire. ” “ Then , ” said Aramis , in his neighbor ’ s ear , “ the conferences are over .
“ Alas , do you love nothing else in me ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ Let us try what we can do , then , ” said the notary .
Three is just my number ! ” “ Now , then , who are you ? ” asked the Englishman .
He left the saucepan .
Come , who is my father ? ” “ I came to tell you. ” “ Ah , ” cried Benedetto , his eyes sparkling with joy .
Oh , it was cruel to us , and—dare I say it ? —to you also. ” “ Listen , my friends , ” said the count— “ I may call you so since we have really been friends for the last eleven years—the discovery of this secret has been occasioned by a great event which you must never know .
At Herlier , Planchet , who led the column , turned to the left .
But why should I meddle in the matter ?
Is it not true that you only bought this house five or six days ago ? ” “ Certainly not longer. ” “ Well , I am sure it is quite transformed since last week .
“ ‘ He was a foreigner ? ’ “ ‘ An Italian from the neighborhood of Mantua , I believe. ’ “ ‘ Let me see this diamond again , ’ replied the jeweller ; ‘ the first time you are often mistaken as to the value of a stone. ’ “ Caderousse took from his pocket a small case of black shagreen , opened , and gave it to the jeweller .
Who sent away Madame de Chevreuse after she had been persecuted twelve years under the last reign ? ” “ A woman of intrigue , who wanted to keep up against me the spirit of cabal she had raised against M. de Richelieu. ” “ Who dismissed Madame de Hautefort , that friend so loyal that she refused the favor of the king that she might remain in mine ? ” “ A prude , who told you every night , as she undressed you , that it was a sin to love a priest , just as if one were a priest because one happens to be a cardinal. ” “ Who ordered Monsieur de Beaufort to be arrested ? ” “ An incendiary the burden of whose song was his intention to assassinate me. ” “ You see , cardinal , ” replied the queen , “ that your enemies are mine. ” “ That is not enough madame , it is necessary that your friends should be also mine. ” “ My friends , monsieur ? ” The queen shook her head .
The iron made no impression , but met with a smooth surface ; Dantès touched it , and found that it was a beam .
As they stopped at the door of the cardinal ’ s study , D ’ Artagnan was about to be announced when Rochefort slapped him on his shoulder .
In a quarter of an hour he returned , accompanied by a tall man , masked , and wrapped in a large red cloak .
I really never heard a person speak as you do. ” “ Because you remain eternally encircled in a round of general conditions , and have never dared to raise your wings into those upper spheres which God has peopled with invisible or exceptional beings. ” “ And you allow then , sir , that spheres exist , and that these marked and invisible beings mingle amongst us ? ” “ Why should they not ?
Milady does not know me ; I will get access to her without her suspecting me , and when I catch my beauty , I will strangle her. ” “ Well , ” replied Athos , “ I am not far from approving the idea of Monsieur Porthos. ” “ For shame ! ” said Aramis .
And he bowed profoundly before the cardinal , like a man who says , “ Lord , Thy will be done ! ” The cardinal approached the table , and without sitting down , wrote a few lines upon a parchment of which two-thirds were already filled , and affixed his seal .
“ No , my guardian , ” replied Raoul , blushing .
“ Sir , ” she replied , “ did I not say , and did you not hear me say to those people , that you should do as you pleased ? ” “ In that case , ” said Mazarin , “ I think it must please me best to remain ; not only on account of my own interest , but for your safety. ” “ Remain , then , sir ; nothing can be more agreeable to me ; only do not allow me to be insulted. ” “ You are referring to the demands of the rebels and to the tone in which they stated them ?
At that time it was believed that the separation of the Musketeers and the Guards would be but momentary , the king holding his Parliament that very day and proposing to set out the day after .
You must not stop an instant on the way .
In the meanwhile , as the thing is difficult to find in France , and your abbé is not probably disposed to make a journey to Paris on my account , I must continue to use Monsieur Planche ’ s anti-spasmodics ; and mint and Hoffman ’ s drops are among my favorite remedies .
Is there any secret meaning concealed beneath your words ? ” “ Oh , my God , no ! ” said Lord de Winter , with apparent good nature .
Mercédès has no fortune ; I have none to settle on her .
Edmond opened his eyes , complained of great pain in his knee , a feeling of heaviness in his head , and severe pains in his loins .
His early refinement of character was not only not lost , it grew even greater than ever ; but it was now applied to the little , instead of to the great things of life—to the martial condition of the soldier—comprised under the head of a good lodging , a rich table , a congenial hostess .
Athos looked at them both and took their hands in his .
At this moment a shadow passed rapidly before the opening ; Dantès seized his gun , sprang through the opening , and mounted the stair .
From the time D ’ Artagnan took quarters in that hotel , the mistress of the house , a pretty and fresh looking Flemish woman , twenty-five or twenty-six years old , had been singularly interested in him ; and after certain love passages , much obstructed by an inconvenient husband to whom a dozen times D ’ Artagnan had made a pretence of passing a sword through his body , that husband had disappeared one fine morning , after furtively selling certain choice lots of wine , carrying away with him money and jewels .
He double locked it , took the key , returned to the bedroom door , removed the double staple of the bolt , and went in .
think what a solemn engagement you are making ; one has offered a wealthy shopkeeper , the other a count ; you are going , then , to offer a prince , are you ? ” “ I offer you a beggar , my lord. ” “ Ah !
The young man recognized at the same instant the voices of his father and the Chevalier d ’ Herblay ; two officers in the Parisian forces rushed at that instant on Raoul , but Aramis protected him with his sword .
Monte Cristo drew him in gently .
Bending on one knee , he placed it reverently by the side of its mother , with its head upon her breast .
Nothing makes the future look so bright as surveying it through a glass of chambertin. ” “ That ’ s all very well , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ but I am tired of fearing when I open a fresh bottle that the wine may come from the cellar of Milady. ” “ You are very fastidious , ” said Athos ; “ such a beautiful woman ! ” “ A woman of mark ! ” said Porthos , with his loud laugh .
“ Very well ; come this way. ” D ’ Artagnan went toward a very small , low window , just large enough to let a man through .
The mob dispersed .
Your devotion does not commit you too far , Monsieur de Rochefort. ” “ And then , my lord , ” continued Rochefort , “ you understand that to emerge from the Bastile in order to enter Vincennes is only to change one ’ s prison. ” “ Say at once that you are on the side of Monsieur de Beaufort ; that will be the most sincere line of conduct , ” said Mazarin .
You were speaking of the Champs-Élysées just now , worthy foster-father. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , in the Champs-Élysées there resides a very rich gentleman. ” “ At whose house you robbed and murdered , did you not ? ” “ I believe I did. ” “ The Count of Monte Cristo ? ” “ ’ Tis you who have named him , as M. Racine says .
Going straight towards him , he propounded a variety of questions on different subjects , carefully watching the man ’ s countenance as he did so ; but not a word or look implied that he had the slightest idea of ever having seen before the person with whom he was then conversing .
Milady had had time , during the whole day , to trace her plan of conduct .
“ Here , ” said she , “ here is a ring of great value , as I have been assured .
Many a time , nevertheless , during the evening she despaired of fate and of herself .
No ! —no !
M. de Villefort entered his father ’ s room , followed by Madame de Villefort .
Besides , Maximilian Morrel , though hardly two-and-twenty , had great influence over his father .
“ Ah , I see the eye of a father is no more to be deceived than his heart. ” “ Hum ! ” said the major .
He had discovered those to whose death he had devoted his life .
“ Possibly , ” said Danglars ; “ was not this murdered man an old galley-slave ? ” 50025m “ Yes , ” replied the count ; “ a felon named Caderousse. ” Danglars turned slightly pale ; Andrea reached the anteroom beyond the little drawing-room .
Bazin set out the next day for Tours , and was allowed eight days for performing his commission .
They then rang the bell , and carrying away four swords out of five , they took their road , intoxicated with joy , toward the hôtel of M. de Tréville .
Chapter LXIII .
no .
It was written and signed by Albert .
Monsieur is , I am sure , an honest man. ” “ Take away that fool ! ” said the cardinal .
“ Alas , ” murmured he , with intense suffering , “ I might , then , have been happy yet. ” Then he carried Haydée to her room , resigned her to the care of her attendants , and returning to his study , which he shut quickly this time , he again copied the destroyed will .
Bonacieux , who willingly took it , half laughing , half trembling , and both gained the top of Rue de la Harpe .
You see , mother , I treat you handsomely for thirty-five francs. ” Albert then took a pen , and wrote : Frs .
The next morning , when Kitty presented herself at D ’ Artagnan ’ s , she was no longer joyous and alert as on the two preceding days ; but on the contrary sad as death .
Conspiracy Chapter 5 .
At last I mastered my agitation .
Dantès said , “ I wish to die , ” and had chosen the manner of his death , and fearful of changing his mind , he had taken an oath to die .
At ten minutes past five Albert entered overjoyed .
I fully authorize you at once to assume the command of the _Pharaon_ , and look carefully to the unloading of her freight .
It was for this I had annulled the lease—it was for this I had come—it was for this I was waiting .
You must henceforth be admired and quoted as a model of it .
Laugh at the chance which has brought your friend near to you and Monsieur du Vallon , instead of being in the depths of despair about it. ” But D ’ Artagnan was still in a desponding mood .
“ Come , come , ” continued the count , “ I see you are still the same , —an assassin. ” “ Reverend sir , since you know everything , you know it was not I—it was La Carconte ; that was proved at the trial , since I was only condemned to the galleys. ” “ Is your time , then , expired , since I find you in a fair way to return there ? ” “ No , reverend sir ; I have been liberated by someone. ” “ That someone has done society a great kindness. ” “ Ah , ” said Caderousse , “ I had promised—— ” “ And you are breaking your promise ! ” interrupted Monte Cristo .
He fancied for a moment that he had been shot , and listened for the report ; but he heard nothing .
We need not say that a smile of condescension was stamped upon his lips .
I have , ” replied the duke , “ a way of descending from the ramparts. ” “ What ? ” “ A rope ladder. ” “ Yes , but , ” answered La Ramee , trying to laugh , “ a ladder of ropes can ’ t be sent around a ball , like a letter. ” “ No , but it may be sent in something else. ” “ In something else—in something else ?
’ tis Raoul , who is come home. ” Athos , as the name of Raoul was pronounced , looked inquisitively at D ’ Artagnan , in order to see if any curiosity was painted on his face .
“ It is a wretched bed , but that is not my fault , and it is you who have chosen it. ” With these words he drew in his turn and crossed swords with his adversary .
However , as it became dark , and I could no longer see , I fell asleep ; I was soon aroused by a piercing shriek , as from a person suffering in his dreams , and he suddenly threw his head back violently .
The quadrille had been most perfect , and it was evident there was a great demand for a repetition , Carmela alone objecting to it , but the Count of San-Felice besought his daughter so earnestly , that she acceded .
She was pale and fair , with long curls falling in profusion over her shoulders , had large , blue , languishing eyes , rosy lips , and hands of alabaster .
The police belonging to the city being formed by the city itself , nothing threatening presented itself to disturb this concert of universal hatred or freeze the frequent scoffs of slanderous lips .
“ And here are the other five hundred , ” replied Milady , placing her hand upon the bag of gold .
“ Well , are you going away in that manner ?
no , nothing at all .
With the first light Dantès resumed his search .
Speak , Comte de la Fere ! ” “ My lord , ” replied Athos , “ for myself I have nothing to demand .
“ A thousand francs. ” “ But whence have you obtained them ? ” “ Listen to me , mother , and do not yield too much to agitation. ” And Albert , rising , kissed his mother on both cheeks , then stood looking at her .
why watch me ? ” asked the duke uneasily .
The door opened , and D ’ Artagnan went into the chamber .
“ Sir , ” resumed Villefort , “ we are thinking of marrying Valentine. ” Had the old man ’ s face been moulded in wax it could not have shown less emotion at this news than was now to be traced there .
Ten minutes after one is taken , the effect is produced .
I have dined many times with him and the Count of Morcerf , so you see I have some high connections and were I to cultivate them a little , we might meet in the same drawing-rooms. ” “ Come , your jealousy represents everything to you in the wrong light. ” “ That is all very fine , Benedetto mio , but I know what I am saying .
“ That horse was to have identified us in the day of battle .
“ I was then almost assured that the inheritance had neither profited the Borgias nor the family , but had remained unpossessed like the treasures of the Arabian Nights , which slept in the bosom of the earth under the eyes of the genie .
You met him at a dinner party at my house , and you introduced yourself at his house ; that is a totally different affair. ” “ Yes , but , by my marriage , you have forwarded that. ” “ I ? —not in the least , I beg you to believe .
This was a very easy matter for a woman so really superior as she was .
She began counting them , remarking that they were much slower than the beatings of her heart ; and still she doubted , —the inoffensive Valentine could not imagine that anyone should desire her death .
God will punish you !
“ I ’ m surprised you have never so much as asked after him .
But I must see him instantly. ” “ Take care , madame , ” said Athos , “ for he knows neither his father nor his mother. ” “ You have kept the secret !
“ Good-bye , ” said Château-Renaud in his turn , keeping his little cane in his left hand , and saluting with his right .
He went gayly up to the sailors , who rose as soon as they perceived him ; and the patron , accosting him , said : “ The Signor Sinbad has left his compliments for your excellency , and desires us to express the regret he feels at not being able to take his leave in person ; but he trusts you will excuse him , as very important business calls him to Malaga. ” “ So , then , Gaetano , ” said Franz , “ this is , then , all reality ; there exists a man who has received me in this island , entertained me right royally , and has departed while I was asleep ? ” “ He exists as certainly as that you may see his small yacht with all her sails spread ; and if you will use your glass , you will , in all probability , recognize your host in the midst of his crew. ” So saying , Gaetano pointed in a direction in which a small vessel was making sail towards the southern point of Corsica .
M. and Mme .
“ Well , well ! ” said he , “ you are brave young men , proud in daylight , faithful in darkness .
I do not perceive that singing masses has spoiled your voice. ” “ My dear D ’ Artagnan , ” replied Aramis , “ you understand , when I was a musketeer I mounted guard as seldom as I could ; now when I am an abbé I say as few masses as I can .
I ?
Then the foolish criminal is taken , imprisoned , interrogated , confronted , confounded , condemned , and cut off by hemp or steel ; or if she be a woman of any consideration , they lock her up for life .
Take care , my young friend .
hello , lovely damsel !
“ One last favor , my Lord ! ” said he to the baron .
What strange means has he used to compass this blessed end ? ” Valentine was on the point of relating all that had passed , but she suddenly remembered that in doing so she must reveal a terrible secret which concerned others as well as her grandfather , and she said : “ At some future time I will tell you all about it. ” “ But when will that be ? ” “ When I am your wife. ” The conversation had now turned upon a topic so pleasing to Morrel , that he was ready to accede to anything that Valentine thought fit to propose , and he likewise felt that a piece of intelligence such as he just heard ought to be more than sufficient to content him for one day .
‘ Not at all , I assure you. ’ “ ‘ But where will you manage to stow me ? ’ “ ‘ In the chamber overhead. ’ “ ‘ Surely that is where you yourselves sleep ? ’ “ ‘ Never mind that ; we have a second bed in the adjoining room. ’ “ Caderousse stared at his wife with much astonishment .
perhaps to Madame de Longueville .
What say you to that ? ” “ I say that she was my mother. ” “ She caused the unfortunate Duke of Buckingham to be stabbed by a man who was , ere that , honest , good and pure .
Then , commencing a loud whistling noise , he rubbed them well all over their bodies for several minutes ; then , undisturbed by the noisy crowd collected round the broken carriage , Ali quietly harnessed the pacified animals to the count ’ s chariot , took the reins in his hands , and mounted the box , when to the utter astonishment of those who had witnessed the ungovernable spirit and maddened speed of the same horses , he was actually compelled to apply his whip in no very gentle manner before he could induce them to start ; and even then all that could be obtained from the celebrated “ dappled grays , ” now changed into a couple of dull , sluggish , stupid brutes , was a slow , pottering pace , kept up with so much difficulty that Madame de Villefort was more than two hours returning to her residence in the Faubourg Saint-Honoré .
Madame de Villefort was overpowered ; her eyes first flashed and then swam , she staggered towards the door and disappeared .
At ten paces from the hedge he recognized the talkative Gascon ; and as he had already perceived that these men were Musketeers , he did not doubt that the three others were those called the Inseparables ; that is to say , Athos , Porthos , and Aramis .
D ’ Artagnan swore loud enough to be heard in the skies .
It would be a still worse affair for Mazarin , whom he execrated for the greater offences he had committed .
That will keep us from going away from the East whither I am tempted to think I have been conveyed by some good genius. ” “ Well , then , Signor Aladdin , ” replied the singular Amphitryon , “ you heard our repast announced , will you now take the trouble to enter the dining-room , your humble servant going first to show the way ? ” At these words , moving aside the tapestry , Sinbad preceded his guest .
He will speak to me of God and death , as he has spoken to many another dying man , not understanding that this one leaves his throne to an usurper , his children to the cold contempt of public charity. ” And he raised the medallion to his lips .
Four large vessels , recently built , had just been launched .
“ I have already forbidden that man , ” he said , “ to come in here without my permission. ” “ You must pardon him , my lord , ” said La Ramee , “ for I directed him to come. ” “ And why did you so direct when you know that he displeases me ? ” “ My lord will remember that it was agreed between us that he should wait upon us at that famous supper .
Bonacieux retired .
Have you killed the cardinal ?
Mordaunt drew a handkerchief from his pocket , and tying a knot at each corner—the signal agreed upon—waved it in the air and the man came up to him .
Porthos was snoring most musically when some one touched him on the shoulder .
You must be blessed indeed to possess the knowledge you have. ” The abbé smiled .
But his opponent did not allow his guard to be broken .
For Heaven ’ s sake don ’ t be obstinate , for when others are obstinate I am obstinate likewise , and then I become ferocious and headstrong , and there ’ s my friend , who is even more headstrong and ferocious than myself .
“ I left it when I was but five years old , ” replied Haydée .
How exquisitely Coselli sings his part. ” “ But what an awkward , inelegant fellow he is. ” “ Well , then , what do you say to La Specchia ?
besides , if they do , we can easily make an excuse ; we came straight off a journey and are insurgents , too. ” “ An excuse for us !
The cavalier in the gilt cuirass fell upon Aramis and struck a blow that Aramis parried with his wonted skill .
Know , then , what manner of woman it was for whom to-day you call me to account .
At this order , given in Athos ’ s habitually calm manner , the face of the Gascon relaxed and Porthos ’ s brow grew smooth .
“ As the eleventh hour struck , he entered with a swaggering air , attended by two of the most dissolute and reckless of his boon companions .
“ And you are a fool for having said anything about it , ” said a voice from the top of the stairs .
Besides , make yourselves easy ; we shall not all arrive at London. ” “ Why so ? ” “ Because , in all probability , some one of us will be left on the road. ” “ Is this , then , a campaign upon which we are now entering ? ” “ One of a most dangerous kind , I give you notice. ” “ Ah !
“ Mazarin is better lodged , ” said Aramis .
Instead of striking between the sixth and seventh left ribs , as your countrymen do , you must have struck higher or lower , and life is very tenacious in these lawyers , or rather there is no truth in anything you have told me—it was a fright of the imagination , a dream of your fancy .
The rest concerns myself ; don ’ t be uneasy about that. ” “ Be prudent , Athos , ” said Aramis .
Madame de Villefort , who was in very good spirits , would neither believe nor think of the misfortune , but Mademoiselle Valentine , at the first words , guessed the whole truth , notwithstanding all the precautions of her father ; the blow struck her like a thunderbolt , and she fell senseless. ” “ And how was M. de Saint-Méran related to Mademoiselle de Villefort ? ” said the count .
She had raised her veil , and with her face hidden by her hands was giving free scope to the sighs and tears which had been so long restrained by the presence of her son .
On your knees , count. ” Athos knelt down and the king passed the ribbon down from left to right as usual , raised his sword , and instead of pronouncing the customary formula , “ I make you a knight .
“ Pooh ! ” said Athos , trying to smile in his turn .
Should Dantès not return , Mercédès might one day be his .
This child has caused me to recover what I had lost .
In the midst of her despair , a new affliction overtook her .
“ Are you going ? ” “ Really , that is a good idea ! —two hours have I been boring you to death with my company , and then you , with the greatest politeness , ask me if I am going .
Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare ( or are legally required to prepare ) your periodic tax returns .
“ This appalling sight almost bereft me of my senses , and finding that I could no longer be of service to anyone in the house , my only desire was to fly .
In the eyes of everybody this was a declaration of war between the two kingdoms .
You do not know these ultramontane millionaires ; they are regular misers .
The trap once replaced over his head , you being on the trap , dead or alive , they will need at least ten minutes to find the hole by which he has escaped .
“ Then the idea of this marriage really grieves you too ?
“ Your mother has no longer either throne or husband ; she has neither son , money nor friends ; the whole world , my poor child , has abandoned your mother ! ” And she fell back , weeping , into her daughter ’ s arms .
Noirtier ’ s eye remained immovable .
Villefort knew not when he should return , and Renée , far from pleading for Dantès , hated the man whose crime separated her from her lover .
I do not. ” “ Hem ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ there is some truth in what you say. ” “ Ah !
Ah , ” said the count , watching Andrea ’ s countenance , “ I do not demand any confession from you ; it is precisely to avoid that necessity that your father was sent for from Lucca .
I could not ride behind .
Three times I presented myself to ask his support and three times he ordered his servants to turn me away. ” “ Oh , mon Dieu !
They had found the door of the grotto opened , and gone forth ; on the azure dome of heaven still glittered a few remaining stars .
“ Brute ! ” said Danglars .
“ Whatever happens , let us not leave England before the crisis .
The unknown spurred his horse to a gallop .
Prison had made Edmond prudent , and he was desirous of running no risk whatever .
After this , satisfied with the way in which he had conducted himself at Meung , without remorse for the past , confident in the present , and full of hope for the future , he retired to bed and slept the sleep of the brave .
What good has it done me to mourn for you eternally in the secret recesses of my heart ? —only to make a woman of thirty-nine look like a woman of fifty .
He inquired what was the will of his persevering visitor .
Athos alighted and calmly opened the handkerchief tied at each corner , whilst D ’ Artagnan , ever cautious , remained on horseback , one hand upon his pistol , leaning forward watchfully .
“ Neffer , neffer ! ” D ’ Artagnan , seeing Athos rise , did likewise , took his arm , and went out .
Monte Cristo wrote : “ I die , murdered by the Corsican Benedetto , my comrade in the galleys at Toulon , No .
“ Now , ” said Mordaunt , “ are you not afraid that they will recognize you ? ” “ There is no danger , dressed as I am in this pilot coat , on a night as dark as this .
What has happened is quite natural , and in conformity with the law of reprisals. ’ “ ‘ What , ’ cried I , ‘ do you , a magistrate , speak thus to me ? ’ “ ‘ All these Corsicans are mad , on my honor , ’ replied M. de Villefort ; ‘ they fancy that their countryman is still emperor .
He fancied in the darkness that he recognized the young man who had questioned him .
More likely he has been speculating on the Bourse , and has lost money. ” “ M .
Porthos was delighted ; and yet during the entire repast he seemed to be preoccupied .
I shall not do so .
Athos and Aramis turned also and went to salute the coadjutor and the Duc de Beaufort .
Suppose her majesty refuses ? ” “ Oh ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ monseigneur knows very well that her majesty refuses him nothing. ” “ Here , monseigneur , ” said Aramis , “ is the treaty proposed by the deputation of Frondeurs .
The count left the carriage and mingled in the crowd who followed on foot .
“ On !
The opinion of Athos was that D ’ Artagnan had lost his letter in the skirmish .
Lord de Winter will now be upon his guard if the letter should reach him ; and even if it should fall into the hands of the cardinal , we shall not be compromised .
As the door opened , the sound of a _guzla_ reached the ears of the young men , but was almost immediately lost , for the rapid closing of the door merely allowed one rich swell of harmony to enter .
A bed without curtains , four armchairs , and a couch , covered with yellow Utrecht velvet , composed , with a _prie-Dieu_ , all its furniture .
But what do you expect ?
“ Explain yourself , count ! ” cried the queen , whose anxiety grew greater every moment .
“ La Chesnaye ! ” Louis XIII. ’ s confidential valet , who never left the door , entered in reply to the call .
“ Yes , ‘ my prince ; ’ but listen .
“ Yes , I share your hopes ; the anger of Heaven will not pursue us , since you are pure and I am innocent .
“ Yes , ” replied the man , “ but at what a price ! ” “ Listen , friend , ” said Monte Cristo .
I merely tell you to look into my conduct during the last four years that we have ceased to be husband and wife , and see whether it has not always been consistent .
Let us come to some conclusion .
Athos , on the other hand , reflected that this recent gentleness of his friends most certainly arose from some plan formed by D ’ Artagnan .
Two guards attended the mercer who made him traverse a court and enter a corridor in which were three sentinels , opened a door and pushed him unceremoniously into a low room , where the only furniture was a table , a chair , and a commissary .
Porthos agreed to the bargain ; the thing suited him wonderfully well .
Besides , Milady knew the masters , and did not know the lackeys ; on the contrary , the lackeys knew Milady perfectly .
And even if she were to be seriously offended , I could well understand it ; your Majesty has treated her with a severity— ” “ It is thus I will always treat my enemies and yours , Duke , however high they may be placed , and whatever peril I may incur in acting severely toward them. ” “ The queen is my enemy , but is not yours , sire ; on the contrary , she is a devoted , submissive , and irreproachable wife .
Still more , the light which had shone for an instant disappeared , and all was again in obscurity .
But still , we have quite lost our dear Eugénie ; for I doubt whether her pride will ever allow her to return to France. ” “ Still , baron , ” said Monte Cristo , “ family griefs , or indeed any other affliction which would crush a man whose child was his only treasure , are endurable to a millionaire .
Not an instant to be lost !
D ’ Artagnan ’ s countenance took an expression of the deepest compassion ; he began to think he had to do with madmen .
Our best-born and richest gentlemen sometimes solicit it without being able to obtain it .
Do you know where I shall find him ? ” “ Near Blois .
“ Oh , if that were so , I should lose my reason ! ” And he folded her in his arms .
“ Have you been , or are you , his mistress ? ” “ Oh , no ! ” cried Milady , with an accent that admitted no doubt of her truth .
Whilst the two friends were with the cardinal , the queen sent for him .
I am stricken by fate .
You are safe—you are free. ” Mazarin replied only by a groan ; he could not believe in such a miracle .
Although this man was scarcely thirty-six or thirty-seven years of age , hair , mustaches , and royal , all began to be gray .
‘ Lucullus dines with Lucullus , ’ that is quite sufficient. ” Bertuccio bowed , and left the room .
“ Yes , yes , ” said the king , caressing it with his hand , “ yes , my Arthur , thou art a fond and faithful creature. ” After this little scene Charles threw himself into the saddle , and turning to Athos , Aramis and Winter , said : “ Now , gentlemen , I am at your service. ” But Athos was standing with his eyes fixed on a black line which bordered the banks of the Tyne and seemed to extend double the length of the camp .
And in what part of Auteuil do you reside ? ” “ Rue de la Fontaine. ” “ Rue de la Fontaine ! ” exclaimed Villefort in an agitated tone ; “ at what number ? ” “ No .
Lord de Winter believed all that was told him with so much the more ease that it was his interest to believe it .
Cromwell had sent him to Mazarin .
Then she ventured to ask what had become of Felton .
You went to sleep full of thoughts of vengeance ; they weighed heavily upon your stomach ; you had the nightmare—that ’ s all .
Any one who happened at that moment to contemplate that red simar—the gorgeous robe of office—and the rich lace , or who gazed on that pale brow , bent in anxious meditation , might , in the solitude of that apartment , combined with the silence of the ante-chambers and the measured paces of the guards upon the landing-place , have fancied that the shade of Cardinal Richelieu lingered still in his accustomed haunt .
Mazarin and Guitant conversed together in whispers .
“ However , to Teresa ’ s great astonishment , Luigi remained mute , and not a word escaped his lips the rest of the evening .
But be of good courage , my lad ; in three days we shall be delivered from this creature , and where I shall send her she can harm nobody. ” “ You hear him ! ” cried Milady , with vehemence , so that the baron might believe she was addressing heaven , and that Felton might understand she was addressing him .
0141m “ So then , ” he exclaimed , turning pale with anger , “ seven conjoined and allied armies overthrew that man .
1.E.6 .
“ P.S.—Be it well understood that the fifty louis which I send are equally for Aramis as for you—for you as Aramis. ” Athos smiled , and his fine eye was dimmed by a tear .
I was sent there to intercept a correspondence between Chalais and the archduke , and even then , when I was discovered I was nearly torn to pieces .
He ? ” asked Athos .
They were yours , you disposed of them according to your fancy , and I asked no questions ; but it is not the less true that you have this year received 500,000 livres. ” “ Well , sir , and what then ? ” “ Ah , yes , it was just after this that you spoiled everything. ” “ Really , your manner of speaking—— ” “ It expresses my meaning , and that is all I want .
“ My dear , ” said Villefort , in answer to his wife , “ you know I have never been accustomed to play the patriarch in my family , nor have I ever considered that the fate of a universe was to be decided by my nod .
Thus M. de Tréville was praised to the highest note by these men , who adored him , and who , ruffians as they were , trembled before him like scholars before their master , obedient to his least word , and ready to sacrifice themselves to wash out the smallest insult .
“ Or the mysterious benefactress , ” said Athos .
Dantès took the lamp , placed it on a projecting stone above the bed , whence its tremulous light fell with strange and fantastic ray on the distorted countenance and motionless , stiffened body .
The Ball It was in the warmest days of July , when in due course of time the Saturday arrived upon which the ball was to take place at M. de Morcerf ’ s .
The several members of that group were much excited .
Besides , with these men ’ s clothes—— ” “ Will you dress here ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ Shall you have time ? ” “ Do not be uneasy , you little coward !
have you finished , Grimaud ? ” Grimaud made a sign in the affirmative , and pointed to a dozen bodies which he had set up in the most picturesque attitudes .
“ Yes , yes , yes ! ” continued the old man .
“ And this is the reason , monsieur , ” continued Maximilian , “ of my sister and brother-in-law having only 25,000 francs a year. ” Maximilian had scarcely finished his story , during which the count ’ s heart had swelled within him , when Emmanuel entered wearing a hat and coat .
D ’ Artagnan remained , therefore , alone ; and as he declared he was too ignorant of the game to play it regularly they only continued giving balls to one another without counting .
We are not living in the time of Cardinal Richelieu , who would have closed the ports on bare suspicion. ” “ It matters not ; you were wrong to reply to him as you did , ” continued Aramis , following with his eyes the young man , now vanishing behind the cliffs .
Albert was soon deeply engrossed in discoursing upon Paris and Parisian matters , speaking to the countess of the various persons they both knew there .
This plan succeeded ; and Signor Pastrini himself ran to him , excusing himself for having made his excellency wait , scolding the waiters , taking the candlestick from the porter , who was ready to pounce on the traveller and was about to lead him to Albert , when Morcerf himself appeared .
“ Is he handsome ? ” she asked .
He had learned that Dantès had been taken to prison , and he had gone to all his friends , and the influential persons of the city ; but the report was already in circulation that Dantès was arrested as a Bonapartist agent ; and as the most sanguine looked upon any attempt of Napoleon to remount the throne as impossible , he met with nothing but refusal , and had returned home in despair , declaring that the matter was serious and that nothing more could be done .
Andrea was supported by two priests .
The king , however , who sought distraction , while traveling as fast as possible—for he was anxious to be in Paris by the twenty-third—stopped from time to time to fly the magpie , a pastime for which the taste had been formerly inspired in him by de Luynes , and for which he had always preserved a great predilection .
You refuse ? ” cried the cardinal , with astonishment .
However , there are plenty in the world , but you don ’ t look in the right direction for them , my lord. ” “ Indeed !
me !
“ You must teach me a small part of what you know , ” said Dantès , “ if only to prevent your growing weary of me .
He was beginning to ask full explanation of that breaking in on his sleep , which was very annoying to him , when D ’ Artagnan , instead of explaining , closed his mouth with his hand .
Are you not aware that we are never seen one without the others , and that we are called among the Musketeers and the Guards , at court and in the city , Athos , Porthos , and Aramis , or the Three Inseparables ?
Ten curious heads were glued to the tapestry and became pale with fury ; for their ears , closely applied to the door , did not lose a syllable of what he said , while their mouths repeated as he went on , the insulting expressions of the captain to all the people in the antechamber .
“ Vicomte , come here , ” said Athos ; “ the duchess permits you to kiss her hand. ” The youth approached with his charming smile and his head bare , and kneeling down , kissed the hand of the Duchess de Chevreuse .
However , among all the incoherent details given to me by the Abbé Busoni and by Lord Wilmore , by that friend and that enemy , one thing appears certain and clear in my opinion—that in no period , in no case , in no circumstance , could there have been any contact between him and me. ” But Villefort uttered words which even he himself did not believe .
Athos went close to it , and distinguished some words that appeared to merit so great an interest that he made a sign to his friends to be silent , remaining himself bent with his ear directed to the opening of the lower orifice .
Certainly neither I nor Fernand , ” said Danglars , rising and looking at the young man , who still remained seated , but whose eye was fixed on the denunciatory sheet of paper flung into the corner .
advanced a step , and folded his arms over his chest as Napoleon would have done .
What do you say—that she wanted to have her brother-in-law killed ? ” “ Yes. ” “ She was married ? ” asked Aramis .
“ Her preserver was everywhere sought for , but he did not appear ; he was inquired after , but no one had seen him .
And yet you pity a man who , without being bitten by one of his race , has yet murdered his benefactor ; and who , now unable to kill anyone , because his hands are bound , wishes to see his companion in captivity perish .
You can ’ t imagine , my dear fellow , the sort of man he is .
You who are in power have only the means that money produces—we who are in expectation , have those which devotion prompts. ” “ Devotion ! ” said Villefort , with a sneer .
The face of the first was lost to Parry in the darkness ; but as the second turned around and placed his finger on his lips Parry started back in amazement .
It is , however , impossible that this should end as they have decreed ! ” In fact , as this last reflection indicated—this instinctive return to hope—sentiments of weakness or fear did not dwell long in her ardent spirit .
It only proves how little indulgence we may expect from your sex , ” interrupted Valentine .
I must obey you , though you bade me call forth the dead or walk upon the water. ” “ Hope , my friend , ” repeated the count .
Athos was scarcely aged at all !
“ Irrevocably. ” “ You hear , sir , ” said D ’ Artagnan , turning to Mordaunt .
He made his way along the corridors through force of habit ; he threw aside his magisterial robe , not out of deference to etiquette , but because it was an unbearable burden , a veritable garb of Nessus , insatiate in torture .
M. de Villefort , notwithstanding his self-control , was visibly affected , and when Monte Cristo touched his hand , he felt it tremble .
The rowers waited , their oars half lifted out of the water , like birds drying their wings .
Then , with a promptitude which indicated that this was not the first time she had amused herself by adopting the garb of the opposite sex , Eugénie drew on the boots and pantaloons , tied her cravat , buttoned her waistcoat up to the throat , and put on a coat which admirably fitted her beautiful figure .
Andrea paid no attention to the successive charges which were brought against him .
“ Who knows ? ” said Gondy ; “ such men are like thunderbolts—one recognizes them only when they have struck. ” Every one shuddered and there was a moment of silence , during which the queen pressed her hand to her side , evidently to still the beatings of her heart .
By the light of a lantern the coadjutor recognized Planchet .
In particular , there is one yonder of a Gascon look .
From fifty to sixty Musketeers , who appeared to replace one another in order always to present an imposing number , paraded constantly , armed to the teeth and ready for anything .
“ Can I be deceived ? ” he murmured , as he stepped into the oblong and grated vehicle which they call “ the salad basket. ” “ Never mind , we shall see !
you will not believe in him , who requires but a prayer , a word , a tear , and he will forgive ?
The superior education of Dantès gave an air of such extreme probability to this statement that it never once occurred to Jacopo to doubt its accuracy .
“ I recognize him. ” “ It is the monk , ” whispered Porthos to Aramis .
I was going about at random , inquiring of everybody , when I saw you gallop past .
“ The prisoners ! ” he exclaimed , jumping off his horse .
“ He ’ s not a guest like the other one here just now , ” observed mine host to Olivain , who had rejoined his master to see if he wanted anything , “ and your young master has no appetite. ” “ My master had appetite enough three days ago , but what can one do ?
“ Good ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ She is charged with some message for me from her mistress ; she is about to appoint some rendezvous of which she had not courage to speak. ” And he looked down at the pretty girl with the most triumphant air imaginable .
“ No , ” replied the servants , “ it is even probable that we have not been seen ; the shots were fired about a hundred paces in advance of us , in the thickest part of the wood , and we returned to ask your advice. ” “ My advice is this , ” said Monsieur d ’ Arminges , “ and if needs be , my will , that we beat a retreat .
Ten or twelve persons had been in the secret since six o ’ clock , and howsoever great their prudence might be , they could not issue the necessary orders for the departure without suspicion being generated .
“ It is not Aramis ! ” cried he .
“ As for me , I am sure of it , ” said the duke .
Thomson & French ? ” inquired the stranger .
Chapter XC .
“ I have , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
At three o ’ clock the sound of fireworks , let off on the Piazza del Popolo and the Piazza di Venezia ( heard with difficulty amid the din and confusion ) announced that the races were about to begin .
It was necessary to compel him to open it , as the sergeant had been compelled to speak , and this took another ten minutes .
The angel was a demon ; the poor young girl had stolen the sacred vessels from a church. ” “ And what did the count do ? ” “ The count was of the highest nobility .
All took their places , or rather the ladies formed a circle , while the gentlemen ( more indifferent to the restraints of what Boileau calls the _style énergique_ ) commented on the feverish agitation of Andrea , on M. Danglars ’ riveted attention , Eugénie ’ s composure , and the light and sprightly manner in which the baroness treated this important affair .
“ Yes , you will receive it from your father personally , but Lord Wilmore will be the security for the money .
“ And who has seen this _fleur-de-lis ? _ ” inquired Aramis .
As for Benedetto , he gracefully wiped his lips with a fine cambric pocket-handkerchief .
On the seventh of January between seven and eight hundred tradesmen had assembled in Paris to discuss a new tax which was to be levied on house property .
Never mind ; be content , I will do my best .
Why , he imprisoned himself , I swear to you he did .
You may copy it , give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org .
Let us do justice to D ’ Artagnan .
_Ma foi_ , I haven ’ t consulted my daughter ; but if she has good taste—— ” “ Oh , ” said Monte Cristo , “ my fondness may blind me , but I assure you I consider Morcerf a charming young man who will render your daughter happy and will sooner or later attain a certain amount of distinction , and his father ’ s position is good. ” “ Hem , ” said Danglars .
Three days after , about seven o ’ clock in the evening , I saw a servant on horseback leave the house at full gallop , and take the road to Sèvres .
In France people fight with the sword or pistol , in the colonies with the carbine , in Arabia with the dagger .
Take the diamond , then , and sell it ; it is worth fifty thousand francs , and I repeat my wish that this sum may suffice to release you from your wretchedness. ” 0351m “ Oh , sir , ” said Caderousse , putting out one hand timidly , and with the other wiping away the perspiration which bedewed his brow , — “ Oh , sir , do not make a jest of the happiness or despair of a man. ” “ I know what happiness and what despair are , and I never make a jest of such feelings .
All Paris seemed to shout with joy , and then the air resounded with the cries of “ Long live Broussel ! ” “ Long live the coadjutor ! ” “ Long live the queen ! ” cried De Gondy ; but the cries which replied to his were poor and few , and perhaps he had but uttered it to make Anne of Austria sensible of her weakness .
As soon as these studs shall be in your possession , inform me .
and the man ? ” “ A plain and simple beggar , as I have said , my lord , who asks for alms , as he gives holy water ; a practice he has carried on for six years on the steps of St. Eustache. ” “ And you say that he has a great influence over his compeers ? ” “ Are you aware , my lord , that mendacity is an organized body , a kind of association of those who have nothing against those who have everything ; an association in which every one takes his share ; one that elects a leader ? ” “ Yes , I have heard it said , ” replied the coadjutor .
D ’ Artagnan obeyed .
“ I wish to speak with Monsieur Aramis .
“ Who prepared it ? ” “ The chemist who came here with me. ” 40116m “ Drink it , ” said the doctor to Barrois .
Now the following occurrences had taken place between the two contending parties .
“ Yes ; we must put the madman with the madmen. ” The soldiers seized Dantès , who followed passively .
He addressed himself then to Porthos to gain information respecting Athos and Aramis , and to Aramis in order to learn something of Porthos .
Nevertheless , he understood it all , but was deaf .
Again the wounded man opened his eyes and looked in astonishment at these strangers , who appeared to pity him .
“ Listen—you know if I may be relied on. ” “ Yes , ” said Caderousse .
my dear Monsieur de Rochefort , how much you must have learned during your intimacy with the late cardinal !
I feel myself drawn toward you—I , who have never loved anyone but my benefactor—I who have met with nothing but traitors and impious men .
Those gilded cashbooks , drawers locked like gates of fortresses , heaps of bank-bills , come from I know not where , and the quantities of letters from England , Holland , Spain , India , China , and Peru , have generally a strange influence on a father ’ s mind , and make him forget that there is in the world an interest greater and more sacred than the good opinion of his correspondents .
That was your fault. ” “ All my oil is lost ! ” “ Oil is a sovereign balm for wounds ; and my poor Grimaud here was obliged to dress those you had inflicted on him. ” “ All my sausages are gnawed ! ” “ There is an enormous quantity of rats in that cellar. ” “ You shall pay me for all this , ” cried the exasperated host .
However , I will not go back on my word , and I will give 45,000. ’ “ ‘ At least , replace the diamond in the ring , ’ said La Carconte sharply .
“ Ah !
As they were passing onward , Athos proposed that they should lay aside their arms and military costume , and assume a dress more suited to the city .
He went toward the place where he had left him .
“ Can I be so lucky as to find what everybody is seeking for ? ” The voice became more and more indistinct ; a tumultuous movement shook the partition .
“ Well , ask your worthy jailer what favor I this instant solicited of him. ” “ You demanded a favor ? ” said the baron , suspiciously .
The host recognized him .
The tunic soon disappeared under a long cassock , as did his hair under a priest ’ s wig ; the three-cornered hat over this effectually transformed the count into an abbé .
Porthos bowed to his friend .
“ Were our object money only , ” he said , “ we should be rich directly. ” “ How ’ s that ? ” “ Don ’ t you understand , Porthos ?
The Spaniard sprang forward and seized the gun by its muzzle , in order to strike Raoul on the head with the butt .
Peppino placed himself beside Ali , and they set off at a rapid pace .
I was free at Newcastle and had there concluded a treaty with both houses .
Contrary to custom , this gentleman had not been watched , for as the report ran that he was a person of high rank , and one who would allow no impertinent interference , his _incognito_ was strictly respected .
Far from wishing my lord to quit Paris , I hope he will stay there and continue to be prime minister , as he is a great statesman .
At last , after crossing the courts of the Palais Royal , where there still remained some of the conveyances of late guests , they entered the garden and reached the little gate .
“ Well , my dear Mouston , ” he said , “ rest satisfied .
“ Yes , on the contrary , they met , and it was the viscount himself who conducted him to the bed of the dying man. ” Athos , in his turn , rising without speaking , went and unhooked his sword .
For to me there is but one ; the other was an instrument , that was all. ” “ What , brother ! ” cried Milady , “ must I name him again ?
I never caution my servants a second time—remember that. ” Baptistin bowed , and was proceeding towards the door .
30171m “ Yes , I do want a notary , ” motioned the old man , shutting his eyes with a look of defiance , which seemed to say , “ and I should like to see the person who dares to refuse my request. ” “ You shall have a notary , as you absolutely wish for one , sir , ” said Villefort ; “ but I shall explain to him your state of health , and make excuses for you , for the scene can not fail of being a most ridiculous one. ” “ Never mind that , ” said Barrois ; “ I shall go and fetch a notary , nevertheless. ” And the old servant departed triumphantly on his mission .
The stranger looked at him again with a slight smile , and retiring from the window , came out of the hostelry with a slow step , and placed himself before the horse , within two paces of D ’ Artagnan .
So much the better for me , sir , if you speak to me , as you say , with frankness—for then you will do me the honor to esteem the resemblance of our opinions ; but if you have entertained any doubt , as naturally you may , I feel that I am ruining myself by speaking the truth .
A carriage awaited him at the door ; he got in , followed by two soldiers and the magistrate , and the vehicle drove off towards Marseilles .
Bonacieux took place .
Dantès possessed a prodigious memory , combined with an astonishing quickness and readiness of conception ; the mathematical turn of his mind rendered him apt at all kinds of calculation , while his naturally poetical feelings threw a light and pleasing veil over the dry reality of arithmetical computation , or the rigid severity of geometry .
“ Well , my Captain , ” said Porthos , quite beside himself , “ the truth is that we were six against six .
He fixed his haughty eye upon the stranger , and perceived a man of from forty to forty-five years of age , with black and piercing eyes , pale complexion , a strongly marked nose , and a black and well-shaped mustache .
The boat moved off toward the left-hand shore of the Lys , bearing the guilty woman and the executioner ; all the others remained on the right-hand bank , where they fell on their knees .
as we used to say when we said good-bye to each other in the late cardinal ’ s time. ” Athos waved his hand , Raoul bowed , and D ’ Artagnan and Planchet set out .
frightful ! ” murmured Athos , while Porthos broke the bottles and Aramis gave orders , a little too late , that a confessor should be sent for .
Nevertheless , it seemed to him that Athos was not in all respects sincere and frank .
“ Hung by order of his Highness the Duc de Beaufort ! ” cried the prisoner , laughing violently , “ and by Master Jacques Chrysostom La Ramee , the king ’ s commissioner. ” La Ramee uttered a cry of horror and rushed toward the gibbet , which he broke at once and threw the pieces out of the window .
“ What is this gentleman ’ s name ? ” asked the commissary .
The day was employed in preparations for the execution .
“ Two hours passed away without anything fresh happening .
Can you be a coward , you , who have had the courage to witness the death of two old men and a young girl murdered by you ? ” “ Sir !
Have you , then , power against death ?
Friendship throws out deep roots in honest hearts , D ’ Artagnan .
The second was the man ’ s conventional abode , or rather sleeping-place ; it contained a few poor articles of household furniture—a bed , a table , two chairs , a stone pitcher—and some dry herbs , hung up to the ceiling , which the count recognized as sweet peas , and of which the good man was preserving the seeds ; he had labelled them with as much care as if he had been master botanist in the Jardin des Plantes .
“ My dear count , we have only just begun. ” “ What induces you to think so ? ” “ The knowledge that I have of the queen ’ s heart ; she will not rest contented beaten. ” “ Is she , then , preparing for a stroke ? ” “ I hope so. ” “ Come , let us see what you know. ” “ I know that she has written to the prince to return in haste from the army. ” “ Ah !
Danglars , who really began to experience sundry gnawings at the stomach , arose softly , again applied his eye to the crack of the door , and recognized the intelligent countenance of his guide .
During ten minutes he alone kept the crowd at bay ; at last Comminges appeared , pushing Broussel before him .
“ Here is my pass countersigned , ” said the latter .
“ I declare , my friend , ” said he , “ that there is not a creature under the sky who equals you in prowess and in courage .
“ A letter ? ” said the young man .
“ And I am very glad you recognize me , dear M. Caderousse ; it proves you have a good memory , for it must be about ten years since we last met. ” This calmness of Busoni , combined with his irony and boldness , staggered Caderousse .
The sound had not yet died away when Signor Pastrini himself entered .
I was observing you both when you were walking in the garden , and , on my honor , without at all wishing to depreciate the beauty of Mademoiselle Danglars , I can not understand how any man can really love her. ” “ The fact is , Maximilian , that I was there , and my presence had the effect of rendering you unjust in your comparison. ” “ No ; but tell me—it is a question of simple curiosity , and which was suggested by certain ideas passing in my mind relative to Mademoiselle Danglars—— ” “ I dare say it is something disparaging which you are going to say .
But is not your eminence going to the queen ? ” “ For what purpose ? ” “ Monsieur de Guitant , my uncle , has just told me that her majesty had received news of the army. ” “ It is well ; I will go. ” Comminges had seen rightly , and Mordaunt had really acted as he had related .
He took Cucumetto one side , while the young girl , seated at the foot of a huge pine that stood in the centre of the forest , made a veil of her picturesque head-dress to hide her face from the lascivious gaze of the bandits .
Valentine We may easily conceive where Morrel ’ s appointment was .
These important advantages D ’ Artagnan found to his own taste in the Rue Tiquetonne at the sign of the Roe .
He then endeavored to re-enter the marvellous grottos , but they had suddenly receded , and now the path became a labyrinth , and then the entrance vanished , and in vain did he tax his memory for the magic and mysterious word which opened the splendid caverns of Ali Baba to the Arabian fisherman .
I have no hope of penetrating , sword in hand , to Paris , I know that well .
Deuce take those Italian princes ! ” “ A man , too , who could boast of Dante for a genealogist , and could reckon back to the _Divina Comedia_. ” “ A nobility of the rope ! ” said Château-Renaud phlegmatically .
He folded up the accusation quietly , and put it as quietly in his pocket ; read the examination , and saw that the name of Noirtier was not mentioned in it ; perused , too , the application dated 10th April , 1815 , in which Morrel , by the deputy procureur ’ s advice , exaggerated with the best intentions ( for Napoleon was then on the throne ) the services Dantès had rendered to the imperial cause—services which Villefort ’ s certificates rendered indisputable .
Anne of Austria bent down and whispered in the young king ’ s ear : “ Say something gracious to Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , my son. ” The young king leaned toward the door .
Of course , we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work .
“ I , too , ” said Porthos , who , faithful to the instructions , still held the cardinal ’ s arm .
The two friends met her in the corridor , greatly troubled and much upset by such strange events ; she called some of the nuns , who against all monastic custom found themselves in the presence of five men .
There is to be war in Flanders .
“ Excuse me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , endeavoring to resume his course , “ excuse me , but I am in a hurry. ” Scarcely had he descended the first stair , when a hand of iron seized him by the belt and stopped him .
Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4 , “ Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. ” • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing ( or by e-mail ) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License .
In July we added 1,700,000 francs , —it was , you know , the month of the Spanish bonds .
“ I am too much indebted to you to refuse your first request .
Chapter LXII .
D ’ Artagnan thought it was proper to follow this example .
Cries were heard from the camp , “ Come down !
And who am I , to nourish such ambition ?
You are now master of England. ” “ I was much more really so two hours ago. ” “ How so , general ? ” “ Because England had need of me to take the tyrant , and now the tyrant is taken .
As for us , we were three days without anything to eat or drink , so that we began to think of drawing lots who should feed the rest , when we saw _La Gironde_ ; we made signals of distress , she perceived us , made for us , and took us all on board .
This celebrated woman fully understood the art of being dull with dignity .
One single , solitary light was burning there , and it appeared like a star set in a heaven of blackness ; it was Selim ’ s flaming lance .
I shall come back to dessert ; keep me some strawberries , coffee , and cigars .
“ How do you do , Madame Dantès ? ” Mercédès courtesied gravely , and said— “ That is not my name , and in my country it bodes ill fortune , they say , to call a young girl by the name of her betrothed before he becomes her husband .
Almost instantly , in the midst of a tremendous and general outcry , seven or eight horses , excited by the shouts of three hundred thousand spectators , passed by like lightning .
“ Sir , I am ready .
I would not be quite sure that he has not been mixed up with the police for some trifle—a stab with a knife , for instance. ” “ And you have chosen this honest citizen for your steward , ” said Debray .
Aramis , confiding in the address of Bazin , made a pompous eulogium on his candidate .
Some were perusing the article , others making comments and recalling circumstances which substantiated the charges still more .
“ If it is a snare , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ I shall scent it out , be assured .
“ It is very interesting , ” he said , “ but it must be very tedious for a lifetime. ” “ Yes .
Dantès redoubled his efforts ; he seemed like one of the ancient Titans , who uprooted the mountains to hurl against the father of the gods .
Do you expect news from him ? ” “ I expect himself. ” “ Himself ?
What will it signify if one , two , or three more are added ?
She perceived Felton , who sat with his back toward her .
And your servants , too , how very well behaved they are ; there is quite a style about them .
“ Come , then , come , then ! ” cried Milady , trying to drag the young woman along by the arm .
I was going to ask you if you had received any news of Monsieur Franz. ” “ Yes , —yesterday. ” “ What did he tell you ? ” “ That he was leaving at the same time as his letter. ” “ Well , now then , the count ? ” “ The count will come , of that you may be satisfied. ” “ You know that he has another name besides Monte Cristo ? ” “ No , I did not know it. ” “ Monte Cristo is the name of an island , and he has a family name. ” “ I never heard it. ” “ Well , then , I am better informed than you ; his name is Zaccone. ” “ It is possible. ” “ He is a Maltese. ” “ That is also possible .
D ’ Artagnan explained the sword wound of his companion by a _sortie_ which he improvised .
When their parents are sufficiently rich to pay a ransom , a messenger is sent to negotiate ; the prisoner is hostage for the security of the messenger ; should the ransom be refused , the prisoner is irrevocably lost .
The Duc de Grammont received permission from the prince by a glance and went out .
“ A weak obstacle is sometimes sufficient to overthrow a great design .
Athos threw himself on the muzzle of the gun and arrested the shot which was about to be fired .
And he threw away his pistol .
The young men then rose , and bowing to the count , quitted the room .
“ Well , you do not reply ? ” resumed Mazarin .
The first act of Franz was to summon his landlord , who presented himself with his accustomed obsequiousness .
The general remark is , ‘ Oh , it can not be expected that one of so stern a character as M. Villefort could lavish the tenderness some fathers do on their daughters .
Beauchamp was in his bath .
Then he thought it was time to make the last trial , and he put the phial to the purple lips of Faria , and without having occasion to force open his jaws , which had remained extended , he poured the whole of the liquid down his throat .
“ Help !
He ordered two horses to be saddled , and himself went as guide to the young Guardsman .
It was directed to “ Monsieur Oliver Cromwell , General of the Army of the English Nation. ” “ Ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ a singular commission. ” “ Who is this Monsieur Oliver Cromwell ? ” inquired Porthos .
“ You are right , ” said the latter ; “ M .
“ Mazarin is almost king , ” answered Athos ; “ Madame Henrietta is almost no longer queen. ” “ If you would condescend to be clever , Athos , ” observed Aramis , “ I really do think you would be wittier than poor Monsieur de Voiture. ” Athos smiled .
“ What is that noise ? ” There came a sound like a whirlwind , at the same time two troops of horsemen , each composed of ten men , sallied forth from each of the lanes which encompassed the house and surrounded D ’ Artagnan and Planchet .
“ It is already done , ” he said ; “ brucine is no longer employed , but a simple narcotic !
Albert wrote to request me to come to the Opera , doubtless that I might be a witness to the insult he meant to offer you. ” “ Probably , ” said Monte Cristo with his imperturbable tranquillity .
Call for me at eight o ’ clock or shall I wait supper for you at seven ? ” “ That will do very well , ” said Aramis .
This side of your chamber looks out upon a kind of open gallery , where patrols are continually passing , and sentries keep watch day and night. ” “ Are you quite sure of that ? ” “ Certain .
“ But , ” replied Felton , “ I wish to know. ” “ Do not question me , ” said the prisoner ; “ you know that we who are true Christians are forbidden to lie. ” “ Well , then , ” said Felton , “ I will tell you what you were doing , or rather what you meant to do ; you were going to complete the fatal project you cherish in your mind .
“ Your father was fortunate , then ? ” said he .
Help , help ! ” murmured Mme .
“ So serious that I must take leave of you for a few days ; so , ” added he , turning to Renée , “ judge for yourself if it be not important. ” “ You are going to leave us ? ” cried Renée , unable to hide her emotion at this unexpected announcement .
“ Come , then , thou regenerate man , thou extravagant prodigal , thou awakened sleeper , thou all-powerful visionary , thou invincible millionaire , —once again review thy past life of starvation and wretchedness , revisit the scenes where fate and misfortune conducted , and where despair received thee .
Madame de Motteville , who was on especial duty that evening , followed to aid and undress her .
These were the first words he had spoken .
“ Then give me that letter , madame , ” said the chancellor .
You have to do with that woman !
I ’ m beginning to feel queer ! ” cried Blaisois .
Then the cambric was torn from her beautiful shoulders ; and on one of those lovely shoulders , round and white , D ’ Artagnan recognized , with inexpressible astonishment , the _fleur-de-lis_—that indelible mark which the hand of the infamous executioner had imprinted .
Gad !
“ I certainly never will get drunk again , D ’ Artagnan ; it is too bad a habit. ” D ’ Artagnan remained silent ; and then changing the conversation all at once , Athos said : “ By the by , I thank you for the horse you have brought me. ” “ Is it to your mind ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
I can be no longer mistrustful , but you must pardon me , my dear count , for confessing to some degree of astonishment. ” “ Nay , ” answered Monte Cristo , with the most gentlemanly air , “ ’ tis not for such trifling sums as these that your banking house is to be incommoded .
All the preparations were made with a frightful calmness .
What will come out of those three elements when I am no longer present to combine them ?
The conference being finished , the queen summoned him to her cabinet .
The host shook his head .
A lamp burned in the chamber occupied by the priest .
Athos and Aramis looked at him inquiringly .
I wished to live , ” said Athos .
This state of mental anguish is , however , less terrible than the sufferings that precede or the punishment that possibly will follow .
My voluntary confession of the assassination at Auteuil proved to him that I had not committed that of which I stood accused .
“ Yes , much. ” “ About how much ? ” “ A thousand pistoles , perhaps. ” “ What you demand of me is serious , then ? ” “ It is indeed. ” “ What must be done ? ” “ You must go away immediately .
“ In exchange , ” he continued , “ give me the red silk purse that M. Morrel left on old Dantès ’ chimney-piece , and which you tell me is still in your hands. ” Caderousse , more and more astonished , went toward a large oaken cupboard , opened it , and gave the abbé a long purse of faded red silk , round which were two copper runners that had once been gilt .
We have something very important to say to him. ” “ I understand , ” said Athos ; “ but why not Porthos ?
Bonacieux , against Buckingham , but above all against D ’ Artagnan—projects lost in the distance of the future .
I can answer positively on that point , for the musketeers belong to our forces and Monsieur de Cambon , the substitute for Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , still holds his place. ” The two friends looked at each other .
The burning Marseilles sun , which shot into the room through the open door , covered them with a flood of light .
Villefort did not need the help of either Valentine or the domestic in order to carry on with his father the strange conversation which he was about to begin .
Luckily for the rascal , for I should have left him dead on the spot , I assure you. ” “ And what has became of him ? ” “ Oh , I don ’ t know ; he had enough , and set off without waiting for the rest .
It appeared to him that something might have happened at the pavilion in his absence , and that fresh information awaited him .
A gleam , like a flash of lightning , illumined the road , and with the flash was heard the whistling of balls , which were fired wildly in the air .
M. de Tréville listened to the young man ’ s account with a seriousness which proved that he saw something else in this adventure besides a love affair .
Edmond then resolved to try Jacopo , and offered him in return for his attention a share of his prize-money , but Jacopo refused it indignantly .
“ How many people , ” thought he , “ and not one true friend. ” And as he uttered these words of doubt and depression within his mind , a voice beside him said : “ Respect to fallen majesty. ” The king turned quickly around , with tears in his eyes and heart .
“ To whom is it addressed ? ” _ “ To Monsieur Noirtier , Rue Coq-Héron , Paris. ” _ Had a thunderbolt fallen into the room , Villefort could not have been more stupefied .
“ I am the Abbé Faria , and have been imprisoned as you know in this Château d ’ If since the year 1811 ; previously to which I had been confined for three years in the fortress of Fenestrelle .
As to M. de Boville , he was in such a state of despair , that it was evident all the faculties of his mind , absorbed in the thought which occupied him at the moment , did not allow either his memory or his imagination to stray to the past .
Now let us pass the orangery to the hunting lodge .
“ Go from hence to Blangy , and from Blangy to Neufchâtel .
The enemy was marching upon Lens , with the intention , doubtless , of securing possession of that town and separating from France the army of France .
At these words he gave me a ring .
It is thus that human weakness fails , from its debilitated and imperfect organs .
How fortunate that the ornaments were worth more than the watch .
“ What are you looking at ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
Chapter XIV .
“ You know I hate moralizing , except when it is done by Athos .
All these cloaks , gray or black , were raised behind by the point of a sword , or before by the barrel of an arquebuse or a musket .
France is large ; the nearest frontier is sixty leagues distant. ” “ And who is to pursue him ? ” cried Mazarin .
I have a sure method of limbering tongues .
Generally you are only rude , but tonight you are brutal. ” “ It is because I am in a worse humor than usual , ” replied Danglars .
“ But from whom did this ring come to you , Athos ? ” “ From my mother , who inherited it from her mother .
I saw the executioner return into the king ’ s room , change his clothes , put on a black hat and a large cloak and disappear .
His face had lost the expression of careless gayety it had worn like a mask the whole day .
This enormous fortune made no great appearance on the table .
“ Within two leagues of this place , at the inn of the Red Dovecot. ” “ In that case I am lost , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
He lodges at the Hôtel des Princes .
I will therefore fight in my doublet , like yourself. ” “ Come , come , enough of such compliments ! ” cried Porthos .
The soldiers , who knew only their orders , attempted to force him along .
Eighteen leagues is enough for the first stage. ” “ The Comte de la Fere wished me to hasten on , ” replied Raoul , “ that I might rejoin the prince on the morning of the fourth day ; let us push on , then , to Noyon ; it will be a stage similar to those we traveled from Blois to Paris .
“ His excellency does not receive visitors today. ” “ Then here is my master ’ s card , the Baron Danglars .
Next to the merit of infallibility which you appear to possess , I rank that of candidly acknowledging a fault .
The moment the little troop passed Goskal and were approaching the Post , a man sheltered beneath a tree detached himself from the trunk with which he had been confounded in the darkness , and advanced into the middle of the road , putting his finger on his lips .
This embarrassment had completely escaped Albert , but it caused Lucien to shorten his visit ; he was evidently ill at ease .
“ How do you think these garments fit me ? ” “ Wonderfully , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but I come to offer you a dress which will become you still better. ” “ What ? ” asked Porthos .
“ Did you not yet know me ?
What do you say of him ?
No one has seen D ’ Artagnan and Porthos has not appeared .
Might not this young man be sent by his Eminence ?
Will you take charge of our invitation to Messieurs Cavalcanti ? ” “ When will it take place ? ” “ On Saturday. ” “ M .
“ Did your excellency desire to see me ? ” inquired he .
The officer waited for his reply , and seeing it so long coming , he burst into a laugh , turned upon his heel , and re-entered the house .
But lose no time ; we have lost too much already. ” “ That is true .
“ What is it ? ” “ I have spoken to you indiscreetly about Danglars. ” “ On the contrary , speak to me always in the same strain about him. ” “ I am glad to be reassured on that point .
In ten minutes the masters slept ; not so the servants—-hungry , and more thirsty than hungry .
you will not abandon me !
I will shape it out for you with my knife. ” And he took the gibbet and shaped it out as neatly as possible .
The curtain fell almost immediately after the entrance of Madame Danglars into her box , the band quitted the orchestra for the accustomed half-hour ’ s interval allowed between the acts , and the audience were left at liberty to promenade the salon or lobbies , or to pay and receive visits in their respective boxes .
Bravo , count , bravo ! ” “ It is frank , at least , ” said Morrel .
But besides these eight men , you doubtless place some guard outside ? ” “ Oh , no !
“ Is the king dead ?
You have done for me , as you promised , all that you could do .
“ Bravi !
I was about to become an abbé , and all was arranged .
Bonacieux and if she was returning to Paris , why this fugitive rendezvous , why this simple exchange of a glance , why this lost kiss ?
Fortunately , the reader may remember , or may not remember—fortunately we have promised not to lose sight of him .
“ I have 1,060,000 francs remaining , ” he said .
Let us die , then , as De Winter has died ; as for me , I will fly only on condition that we all fly together. ” “ Impossible , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ we are under Mazarin ’ s orders. ” “ I know it and I have nothing more to say ; my arguments lead to nothing ; doubtless they are bad , since they have not determined minds so just as yours. ” “ Besides , ” said Aramis , “ had they taken effect it would be still better not to compromise two excellent friends like D ’ Artagnan and Porthos .
Morrel had looked carelessly around , and had probably noticed nothing .
The expression of the count ’ s face had not remained unperceived by the banker ; he fixed on him a look of greater assurance than before , and said : “ You may , perhaps , be better satisfied that I should not go farther into particulars. ” A tremor of suppressed rage shook the whole frame of the count , and making a violent effort over himself , he said : “ I have a right to insist on your giving me an explanation .
Bonacieux away , and convey her to a place of safety , and there , if matters required , make her a hostage .
‘ I do not see what you have in your hand , ’ said Selim .
59 , and I No .
I have it , gentlemen ; the right idea has just occurred to me. ” “ Tell us. ” “ Allow me to give Grimaud some indispensable orders. ” Athos made a sign for his lackey to approach .
“ Let me see your plan ; I dare say it is a pretty one. ” “ Why not ?
“ Oh , look at me , ” continued she , with a feeling of profound melancholy , “ my eyes no longer dazzle by their brilliancy , for the time has long fled since I used to smile on Edmond Dantès , who anxiously looked out for me from the window of yonder garret , then inhabited by his old father .
It will be absolutely necessary that the place you may select have a small harbor , creek , or bay , into which my corvette can enter and remain at anchor .
“ Oh ! ” said Athos to himself , “ is it indeed possible that I hear what I hear and that I see what I see ?
I do not therefore wish either to kill you , or to be killed myself without a cause .
I suffer horribly .
Raoul , seeing that he could not arrive in time to cross the ferry with the travelers , halted to wait for Olivain .
Besides , were not those riches chimerical ? —offspring of the brain of the poor Abbé Faria , had they not died with him ?
“ Who goes there ? ” cried a hoarse voice .
That name was indeed one to inspire imagination and produce thought .
“ Count , ” she said , “ Bragelonne must be a charming place .
Behind D ’ Artagnan entered Porthos , Aramis , Lord de Winter , and the man in the red cloak .
I can not swim , and dared not throw myself into the river .
Valery ; but listen .
“ Yes , among your friends of other times ; among those who aided you to contend against the Duc de Richelieu and even to conquer him. ” “ What is he aiming at ? ” murmured the queen , looking uneasily at the cardinal .
What do you mean , Beauchamp ? ” “ Oh , yes ; do you pretend that all this has been unobserved at the minister ’ s ? ” said Beauchamp , placing his eye-glass in his eye , where he tried to make it remain .
Her first look was at the box where she had seen the count the previous evening , so that she perceived Franz and Albert in the place of the very person concerning whom she had expressed so strange an opinion to Franz .
God only knows that I retire from thee without pride or hatred , but not without many regrets ; he only knows that the power confided to me has never been made subservient to my personal good or to any useless cause .
Noirtier looked at Valentine with an expression so full of grief , that she arrested the departure of the notary .
In fact , the two soldiers advanced on the side where the window was , rubbing their hands , for it was cold , it being the month of February .
Planchet stopped short , staring at D ’ Artagnan .
These conditions being agreed to , Porthos took leave of Mme .
“ A pardon for Peppino , called Rocca Priori , ” said the principal friar .
“ Fortunately , by our marriage contract , the survivor takes everything. ” “ All ? ” “ Yes , all. ” “ You are a woman of precaution , I see , my dear Madame Coquenard , ” said Porthos , squeezing the hand of the procurator ’ s wife tenderly .
“ Do you wish me to leave ? ” said Morrel , sadly .
These were the only obstacles which appeared possible to the young man .
The storm still continued .
Yesterday a person exactly corresponding with this description was followed , but he was lost sight of at the corner of the Rue de la Jussienne and the Rue Coq-Héron. ” Villefort leaned on the back of an armchair , for as the minister of police went on speaking he felt his legs bend under him ; but when he learned that the unknown had escaped the vigilance of the agent who followed him , he breathed again .
Like everything else , we must habituate the senses to a fresh impression , gentle or violent , sad or joyous .
“ _Monsieur and dear friend_— ” “ Ah , yes !
Do you see this firman ? ’ — ‘ I do , ’ said my father .
“ The affair at Armentieres ? ” asked he again .
To whom would she apply to help her out of this painful situation ?
“ You forget , sir , that you very nearly ruined forever that of my master ; and that it was owing to you that he was very nearly being damned eternally for remaining a musketeer , whilst all the time his true vocation was the church. ” “ My dear Bazin , you ought to perceive , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ from the place in which you find me , that I am greatly changed in everything .
I have been told since that the garrison of the castle of Yanina , fatigued with long service—— ” Here Haydée cast a significant glance at Monte Cristo , whose eyes had been riveted on her countenance during the whole course of her narrative .
“ In the first place , ” he said , making an effort to control himself , “ we are not people who may be treated anyhow ; my friend there is the Viscount of Bragelonne and I am the Count de Guiche .
There , on a table , surrounded at some distance by a large and luxurious divan , every species of tobacco known , —from the yellow tobacco of Petersburg to the black of Sinai , and so on along the scale from Maryland and Porto Rico , to Latakia , —was exposed in pots of crackled earthenware of which the Dutch are so fond ; beside them , in boxes of fragrant wood , were ranged , according to their size and quality , puros , regalias , havanas , and manillas ; and , in an open cabinet , a collection of German pipes , of chibouques , with their amber mouth-pieces ornamented with coral , and of narghiles , with their long tubes of morocco , awaiting the caprice or the sympathy of the smokers .
“ Yes , sir , ” continued the inspector of prisons .
They are the spoils of victory. ” “ I , the heir of an enemy ! ” said Athos ; “ for whom , then , do you take me ? ” “ It is the custom in war , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ why should it not be the custom in a duel ? ” “ Even on the field of battle , I have never done that. ” Porthos shrugged his shoulders ; Aramis by a movement of his lips endorsed Athos .
He related the manner in which he had become acquainted with Valentine , and how he had loved her , and that Valentine , in her solitude and her misfortune , had accepted the offer of his devotion .
“ You have read the letter ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You know how imperfectly the women of the _mezzo cito_ are educated in Italy ? ” ( This is the name of the lower class . )
The door opened , but before it could be closed , the lady exclaimed : “ Oh , Lucien—oh , my friend ! ” The concierge therefore heard for the first time that the lodger ’ s name was Lucien ; still , as he was the very perfection of a door-keeper , he made up his mind not to tell his wife .
Chapter LXXIX .
At last it seemed to him that one part of the wall gave forth a more hollow and deeper echo ; he eagerly advanced , and with the quickness of perception that no one but a prisoner possesses , saw that there , in all probability , the opening must be .
When he had finished , he said : “ My mistress said she should expect you , sir , as soon as you had finished dressing. ” “ I am going to her. ” And Villefort , with his papers under his arm and hat in hand , directed his steps toward the apartment of his wife .
D ’ Artagnan advanced a few steps into the apartment .
“ Was not your father a Bonapartist ? ” asked Monte Cristo ; “ I think I remember that you told me something of that kind. ” “ My father has been a Jacobin more than anything else , ” said Villefort , carried by his emotion beyond the bounds of prudence ; “ and the senator ’ s robe , which Napoleon cast on his shoulders , only served to disguise the old man without in any degree changing him .
“ I informed them at the hotel that I had the honor of passing the night here , duke , ” said Franz , “ and desired them to come and inform me of his return. ” “ Ah , ” replied the duke , “ here I think , is one of my servants who is seeking you. ” The duke was not mistaken ; when he saw Franz , the servant came up to him .
Your letter has frightened me , and I have come hither with all speed. ” “ Julie , ” said Madame Morrel , making a sign to the young man , “ go and tell your father that Maximilian has just arrived. ” The young lady rushed out of the apartment , but on the first step of the staircase she found a man holding a letter in his hand .
What had she done to excite the malice of an enemy ?
“ If you have any preference you can point it out to me ; and if it be not within a thousand leagues of London , attention will be paid to your wishes .
And he made the same friendly salute as D ’ Artagnan .
The King ’ s Closet at the Tuileries We will leave Villefort on the road to Paris , travelling—thanks to trebled fees—with all speed , and passing through two or three apartments , enter at the Tuileries the little room with the arched window , so well known as having been the favorite closet of Napoleon and Louis XVIII. , and now of Louis Philippe .
“ Those casks which I took for casks of port wine are filled with powder .
“ Oh , he never was a friend of mine , I did not know him , and I had nothing to ask of him. ” “ Do you not know what became of him , and the share he had in Edmond ’ s misfortunes ? ” “ No ; I only know that some time after Edmond ’ s arrest , he married Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran , and soon after left Marseilles ; no doubt he has been as lucky as the rest ; no doubt he is as rich as Danglars , as high in station as Fernand .
The closet into which D ’ Artagnan and Porthos had been ushered was separated from the drawing-room where the queen was by tapestried curtains only , and this thin partition enabled them to hear all that passed in the adjoining room , whilst the aperture between the two hangings , small as it was , permitted them to see .
First one gun ’ l goes under , then the other .
In an instant all five were ready .
there is your proud and selfish nature .
D ’ Artagnan took his hand .
“ Oh , thank you a thousand times !
At last their hilarity calmed down and : “ Faith ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan to the two friends , “ you may well wish ill to Mazarin ; for I assure you , on his side he wishes you no good. ” “ Pooh !
Chapter 37 .
He recognized Albert , but thought it better not to notice him , as he looked so angry and discomposed .
You talk of sacrilege !
An old man , decorated with the cross of Saint Louis , now rose and proposed the health of King Louis XVIII .
_Vanitas vanitatum ! _ According to your idea , then , my brain is turned .
Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change .
He has , at the request of your father , opened an account of 5,000 francs a month at M. Danglars ’ , which is one of the safest banks in Paris. ” “ And does my father mean to remain long in Paris ? ” asked Andrea .
Alas , I have only my tongue , but I will try to show that it is good for something .
“ We have fallen in with a party of Spaniards .
Never had Flora , the fresh and smiling goddess of gardeners , been honored with a purer or more scrupulous worship than that which was paid to her in this little enclosure .
“ Gentlemen , ” said De Winter , on reaching the gate of the town , “ let us do here as at Paris—let us separate to avoid suspicion .
Might it not have been the cardinal himself who had first traced them , in order that they might serve as a guide for his nephew in the event of a catastrophe , which he could not foresee would have been so complete .
Ten parts of a hundred pistoles each , in ten throws , without revenge ; in thirteen throws I had lost all—in thirteen throws .
In fact , in crossing the city two or three accidents of this kind happened ; but Buckingham did not even turn his head to see what became of those he had knocked down .
You are ambitious—it is natural ; you are a man of genius and you know your worth .
He probably had succumbed .
No , Louise , no !
What I propose to do is fair in war ; the vanquished must not be dainty in the choice of means .
But , as we have said , it was at least a league from the Château d ’ If to this island .
“ Yes , the sheep are fed in my meadows , which are excellent pasture. ” “ Give me another cutlet. ” “ No , try this hare , which I had killed yesterday in one of my warrens. ” “ Zounds !
I thought there were four of you. ” “ Listen to me , sir .
“ Ah , count , ” said he , “ his father loves him so much ! ” “ Do not speak to me of that , ” said Monte Cristo , with the first movement of anger he had betrayed ; “ I will make him suffer. ” Morrel , amazed , let fall Monte Cristo ’ s hand .
But the Revolution of July was , it seems , sufficiently glorious to allow itself to be ungrateful , and it was so for all services that did not date from the imperial period .
“ ‘ Teresa , ’ said Luigi , ‘ yesterday evening you told me you would give all the world to have a costume similar to that of the count ’ s daughter. ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ replied Teresa with astonishment ; ‘ but I was mad to utter such a wish. ’ “ ‘ And I replied , “ Very well , you shall have it. ” ’ “ ‘ Yes , ’ replied the young girl , whose astonishment increased at every word uttered by Luigi , ‘ but of course your reply was only to please me. ’ “ ‘ I have promised no more than I have given you , Teresa , ’ said Luigi proudly .
The cardinal was , as we have said , in very low spirits ; and nothing when he was in that state of mind increased his depression so much as gaiety in others .
“ Help !
If you are not located in the United States , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook .
You see , it ’ s evident where the count got the name. ” “ But what could have been his motive for sending the cup to me ? ” “ In the first place , because I had spoken much of you to him , as you may believe ; and in the second , because he delighted to see a countrywoman take so lively an interest in his success. ” “ I trust and hope you never repeated to the count all the foolish remarks we used to make about him ? ” “ I should not like to affirm upon oath that I have not .
“ Yes .
So you suppose I have need of an escort ?
I breathe more freely. ” In fact , Porthos breathed so loud as to do credit to the free play of his powerful lungs .
They sat down in such a manner as to turn their backs on nobody .
As soon as that important business is concluded , I will have a pair of my own horses harnessed to convey it direct to Madame Danglars. ” “ I dare not return with those dreadful horses , ” said Madame de Villefort .
The proposal was too advantageous to be refused , the more so as the person for whom the yacht was intended had gone upon a tour through Switzerland , and was not expected back in less than three weeks or a month , by which time the builder reckoned upon being able to complete another .
The barricades had been pushed as far as the Palais Royal .
He took the arm of Madame Danglars , and conducted her into the garden , where they found Danglars taking coffee between the Cavalcanti .
The young shepherd stopped , as if his feet had been rooted to the ground ; then he put the butt of his carbine to his shoulder , took aim at the ravisher , followed him for a second in his track , and then fired .
Of course it is of no consequence , ” he added , with a withering smile .
Grimaud rose .
The other was that which Laporte had placed in the hands of the Duke of Buckingham , warning him that he was about to be assassinated ; that communication had arrived too late .
Come and roll me to bed .
“ Did you fancy yourself dying ? ” “ No , I had no such idea ; but , knowing that all was ready for flight , I thought you might have made your escape. ” The deep glow of indignation suffused the cheeks of Dantès .
The haste which the young woman was in to convey to the queen the excellent news of the happy return of her messenger prevented the two lovers from exchanging more than a few words .
You would have done what I did. ” Mordaunt wanted now only two or three fathoms to reach the boat , for the approach of death seemed to give him supernatural strength .
“ And to sign the contract in three days ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Then , in my turn , I also say , very well ! ” Danglars pressed his daughter ’ s hand in his .
In short , why should I have any more to do with the affair ?
The next morning , therefore , when Broussel made his entrance into Paris in a large carriage , having his son Louvieres at his side and Friquet behind the vehicle , the people threw themselves in his way and cries of “ Long live Broussel ! ” “ Long live our father ! ” resounded from all parts and was death to Mazarin ’ s ears ; and the cardinal ’ s spies brought bad news from every direction , which greatly agitated the minister , but was calmly received by the queen .
Aramis pushed his so vigorously that after going back fifty paces , the man ended by fairly taking to his heels , and disappeared amid the hooting of the lackeys .
“ Come , ” he said , as he ascended the stairs leading to his wife ’ s room , “ nothing is changed here. ” He then closed the door of the landing .
Inside the cup was a small piece of paper , on which were written these words— ‘ From Lord Ruthven to Countess G——. ’ ” “ Precisely ; I was sure of it , ” said Morcerf .
The cardinal , being left alone , reflected for an instant and then rang the bell a third time .
“ Pooh ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
He was stout , had a short , thick neck ; he was attacked with apoplexy , and I was called in too late .
We went to take Monsieur Athos to the waters of Forges , where my friends still remain. ” “ And you have returned , have you not ? ” replied M. Bonacieux , giving to his countenance a most sly air .
This point of union was Noirtier , and it was he who had just sent for Morrel , with the request that the latter would lose no time in coming to him—a command which Morrel obeyed to the letter , to the great discomfiture of Barrois .
“ You wish me , then , to relate the history of my past sorrows ? ” said she .
“ He inquired where they were , and was answered by a burst of laughter .
Planchet , two hours before , had asked his master for some dinner , and he had answered him with the proverb , “ He who sleeps , dines. ” And Planchet dined by sleeping .
“ I have looked at it with all possible attention , ” said Dantès , “ and I only see a half-burnt paper , on which are traces of Gothic characters inscribed with a peculiar kind of ink. ” “ This paper , my friend , ” said Faria , “ I may now avow to you , since I have the proof of your fidelity—this paper is my treasure , of which , from this day forth , one-half belongs to you. ” The sweat started forth on Dantès ’ brow .
War had made her a queen ; peace brought her abdication .
Two hours after , all was over ; we had done the business of both , admiring the foresight of our poor father , who had taken the precaution to bring each of us up in a different religion. ” “ Well , I must allow , as you say , your father was a very intelligent fellow .
On the eighth day after the scene we have described , the cardinal received a letter with the London stamp which only contained these lines : “ I have them ; but I am unable to leave London for want of money .
Do you want anything ? ” D ’ Artagnan shook his head , and set off at full speed .
But I require three weeks ’ preparation ; at the end of that time I shall come and say to you , ‘ The assertion is false , and I retract it , ’ or ‘ The assertion is true , ’ when I shall immediately draw the sword from its sheath , or the pistols from the case , whichever you please. ” “ Three weeks ! ” cried Albert ; “ they will pass as slowly as three centuries when I am all the time suffering dishonor. ” “ Had you continued to remain on amicable terms with me , I should have said , ‘ Patience , my friend ; ’ but you have constituted yourself my enemy , therefore I say , ‘ What does that signify to me , sir ? ’ ” “ Well , let it be three weeks then , ” said Morcerf ; “ but remember , at the expiration of that time no delay or subterfuge will justify you in—— ” “ M .
‘ You can not beat me , ’ said he ; ‘ you have no right , for you are not my father. ’ 20299m “ We never knew who had revealed this fatal secret , which we had so carefully concealed from him ; however , it was this answer , in which the child ’ s whole character revealed itself , that almost terrified me , and my arm fell without touching him .
Haydée saw at a glance the same expression pervading the countenances of her two auditors ; she continued : “ When my mother recovered her senses we were before the seraskier .
Mazarin now understood that Cromwell ’ s envoy desired to retain his incognito .
“ To the hotel , to be sure , to get our baggage and horses ; and from there , if it please God , to France , where , at least , I understand the architecture of the houses. ” So , suiting the action to the word , D ’ Artagnan thrust the remnant of his sword into its scabbard , picked up his hat and ran down the stairs , followed by the others .
“ Go on ! ” “ Count , ” said Morrel , “ you are the epitome of all human knowledge , and you seem like a being descended from a wiser and more advanced world than ours. ” “ There is something true in what you say , ” said the count , with that smile which made him so handsome ; “ I have descended from a planet called grief. ” 50269m “ I believe all you tell me without questioning its meaning ; for instance , you told me to live , and I did live ; you told me to hope , and I almost did so .
And what a coat , sir , for a prince of the Cavalcanti ! ” The keeper turned his back , and shrugged his shoulders ; he did not even laugh at what would have caused anyone else to do so ; he had heard so many utter the same things , —indeed , he heard nothing else .
“ Then he must be playing in the garden ; go and see. ” 50193m “ No , sir ; Madame de Villefort sent for him half an hour ago ; he went into her room , and has not been downstairs since. ” A cold perspiration burst out on Villefort ’ s brow ; his legs trembled , and his thoughts flew about madly in his brain like the wheels of a disordered watch .
The sea continued to get calmer .
A waiter opened the door .
Finally , he is anxious to see if you have been fortunate enough to escape the bad moral influence to which you have been exposed , and which is infinitely more to be dreaded than any physical suffering ; he wishes to discover if the fine abilities with which nature had endowed you have been weakened by want of culture ; and , in short , whether you consider yourself capable of resuming and retaining in the world the high position to which your rank entitles you. ” “ Sir ! ” exclaimed the young man , quite astounded , “ I hope no false report—— ” “ As for myself , I first heard you spoken of by my friend Wilmore , the philanthropist .
Edmond , amazed , wonderstruck , filled his pockets with the radiant gems and then returned to daylight , when he discovered that his prizes had all changed into common pebbles .
He likes good wine ; now you have the key of the cellar .
of what country is he a native ? ’ Tell me , did he put all these questions to you ? ” “ I confess he asked me none. ” “ No ; he merely came and freed me from the hands of Signor Vampa , where , I can assure you , in spite of all my outward appearance of ease and unconcern , I did not very particularly care to remain .
he lost it the day before yesterday. ” And Olivain and the host took their way together toward the inn , Olivain , according to the custom of serving-men well pleased with their place , relating to the tavern-keeper all that he could say in favor of the young gentleman ; whilst Raoul wrote on thus : “ Sir , —After a four hours ’ march I stop to write to you , for I miss you every moment , and I am always on the point of turning my head as if to reply when you speak to me .
Did you know that ? ” “ No , monseigneur .
Andrea turned towards them , and with an impertinent smile asked , “ Have you any message for your father , Mademoiselle Danglars , for in all probability I shall return to Paris ? ” Eugénie covered her face with her hands .
“ Well , M. Morrel , ” said Danglars , “ you have heard of the misfortune that has befallen us ? ” “ Yes—yes : poor Captain Leclere !
a letter from the king , perhaps .
“ Have you not let it go out of your hands ? ” “ No. ” D ’ Avrigny took the bottle , poured some drops of the mixture it contained in the hollow of his hand , and swallowed them .
O ’ Reilly , ” said the duke , leading him into the chapel , “ look at these diamond studs , and tell me what they are worth apiece. ” The goldsmith cast a glance at the elegant manner in which they were set , calculated , one with another , what the diamonds were worth , and without hesitation said , “ Fifteen hundred pistoles each , my Lord. ” “ How many days would it require to make two studs exactly like them ?
I can not endure the modern school of painting. ” “ You are perfectly right in objecting to them , for this one great fault—that they have not yet had time to become old. ” “ Or will you allow me to show you several fine statues by Thorwaldsen , Bartoloni , and Canova ? —all foreign artists , for , as you may perceive , I think but very indifferently of our French sculptors. ” “ You have a right to be unjust to them , monsieur ; they are your compatriots. ” “ But all this may come later , when we shall be better known to each other .
Then , as the wheels rolled over a fine gravel , Milady could hear a vast roaring , which she at once recognized as the noise of the sea dashing against some steep cliff .
Every time he passed with a friend before his windows , at one of which Mousqueton was sure to be placed in full livery , Porthos raised his head and his hand , and said , “ That is my abode ! ” But he was never to be found at home ; he never invited anybody to go up with him , and no one could form an idea of what his sumptuous apartment contained in the shape of real riches .
with Anne of Austria—for that affair was over—but he had to adjust matters for M. de Bassompierre , who was embroiled with the Duc d ’ Angoulême .
“ Oh , you may speak before his excellency , ” said he ; “ he is one of my friends .
He sends me for that purpose , and here I am. ” The poor woman ’ s head and arms fell ; her legs bent under her , and she fell on her knees .
The carriage rolled rapidly onward .
All the same , ” resumed he , after having clicked his tongue against his palate , “ they are brave fellows !
The king ’ s procureur alone was deprived of his office , being suspected of royalism .
“ Good morning , Benedetto , ” said Bertuccio , with his deep , hollow voice .
A silence of death reigned in the cabin as in the pavilion ; but as the cabin was his last resource , he knocked again .
Chapter XII .
This is the reason that , instead of the sixteen I had last year , I have this year , you see , eleven , already plucked—twelve , thirteen , fourteen , fifteen , sixteen , seventeen , eighteen .
We need not say she stopped at the first floor .
Athos surmised what had taken place and smiled .
Then , patting the young girl on the head , he continued , “ Haydée is very courageous , and she sometimes even finds consolation in the recital of her misfortunes. ” “ Because , my lord , ” said Haydée eagerly , “ my miseries recall to me the remembrance of your goodness. ” Albert looked at her with curiosity , for she had not yet related what he most desired to know , —how she had become the slave of the count .
“ Yes , count , ” replied Villefort , in a voice now scarcely human .
They had learned to distinguish the almost imperceptible sound of his footsteps as he descended towards their dungeons , and happily , never failed of being prepared for his coming .
“ Back ! ” shouted D ’ Artagnan , “ or you are dead ! ” Two shots were the reply to this threat ; but the assailants attacked their foes with such velocity that in a moment they were upon them ; a third pistol-shot was heard , aimed by D ’ Artagnan , and one of his adversaries fell .
The Trial .
They won ’ t devour us all four , four lackeys , horses , arms , and all ! ” “ And besides , it will be a chance for displaying our new equipments , ” said Porthos .
The moment that D ’ Artagnan saw that his wish was accomplished and his man would not escape him , he recovered his usual tranquillity .
a horse ! ” he cried ; “ I have found a horse ! ” “ And I , likewise , ” said Athos .
You understand ! ” Athos shrugged his shoulders , and followed his guards silently , while M. Bonacieux uttered lamentations enough to break the heart of a tiger .
And in whose behalf are you looking for them ? ” “ You are in no doubt on that score. ” “ That is true. ” “ Unfortunately , I have no idea where they are. ” “ And you have no way to get news of them ?
There is the little door opening into the garden .
de Morcerf , ’ said the president , ‘ do you recognize this lady as the daughter of Ali Tepelini , pasha of Yanina ? ’ — ‘ No , ’ said Morcerf , attempting to rise , ‘ it is a base plot , contrived by my enemies. ’ Haydée , whose eyes had been fixed on the door , as if expecting someone , turned hastily , and , seeing the count standing , shrieked , ‘ You do not know me ? ’ said she .
When a man is a robber it is hard to call him nephew whom he has impoverished ; when one is a murderer , to recognize the man whom one has made an orphan. ” These words produced a contrary effect to that which Mordaunt had anticipated .
never , never ! ” cried both the children , throwing their arms around their father ’ s neck .
Athos divided them into three groups , assumed the command of one , gave the second to Aramis , and the third to Porthos ; and then each group went and took their watch near an entrance .
With this sum he could manage to keep out of difficulties .
He had only two hours ’ work to do to open communication with the king and , according to the calculations of the four friends , they had the entire day before them , since , the executioner being absent , another must be sent for to Bristol .
The young woman hastened to meet him .
His costume of Guardsman in the company of M. Dessessart ought to be his passport .
“ Let us speak French , my father , ” said he to the Jesuit ; “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan will enjoy our conversation better. ” “ Yes , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ I am fatigued with reading , and all this Latin confuses me. ” “ Certainly , ” replied the Jesuit , a little put out , while the curate , greatly delighted , turned upon D ’ Artagnan a look full of gratitude .
The cardinal , who sometimes became weary of the king , granted this leave of absence with great pleasure to his royal lieutenant , who promised to return about the fifteenth of September .
Athos , when he reached his appointed room , observed through the gratings of his window , walls and roofs ; and was told , on inquiry , by Comminges , that he was looking on the back of the pavilion where D ’ Artagnan was confined .
“ Pardon for whom ? ” cried he .
“ But it seems to me , ” said Monte Cristo , “ and I must begin by asking your pardon for what I am about to say , that if M. Noirtier disinherits Mademoiselle de Villefort because she is going to marry a man whose father he detested , he can not have the same cause of complaint against this dear Edward. ” “ True , ” said Madame de Villefort , with an intonation of voice which it is impossible to describe ; “ is it not unjust—shamefully unjust ?
“ Bravo , Monsieur Grimaud ! ” said Athos ; “ and now take this .
It had now become a weary and almost hopeless task , and had it not been for the threefold motives of honor , friendship and gratitude , implanted in their hearts , our two travelers would have given up many a time their rides over the sand , their interrogatories of the peasantry and their close inspection of faces .
Albert saw all these preparations and understood them , and exclaiming , “ My mother ! ” he threw his arms around her neck .
Chapter XXVIII .
The Jesuit persisted in his opinion .
This time the musketeers had an adversary who was worthy of them .
On the road the president thought he saw the general make an attempt to remove the handkerchief , and reminded him of his oath .
“ Yes. ” “ Shall I call him ? ” “ Yes. ” Valentine went to the door , and called Barrois .
This began to be annoying .
Degenerate world ! ” Chapter LXXXII .
At length I received this letter from your friend , which states that my father is in Paris , and authorizes me to address myself to you for information respecting him. ” “ Really , all you have related to me is exceedingly interesting , ” said Monte Cristo , observing the young man with a gloomy satisfaction ; “ and you have done well to conform in everything to the wishes of my friend Sinbad ; for your father is indeed here , and is seeking you. ” The count from the moment of first entering the drawing-room , had not once lost sight of the expression of the young man ’ s countenance ; he had admired the assurance of his look and the firmness of his voice ; but at these words , so natural in themselves , “ Your father is indeed here , and is seeking you , ” young Andrea started , and exclaimed , “ My father ?
The meetings were always held from that time till midnight .
However , because I was prudent you must not take me for a fool .
“ What are you doing here ? ” he asked in a lofty tone , as that of one accustomed to command .
“ Read ! ” said Morrel .
Mazarin sent us to Cromwell .
Thus dressed she scarcely appeared thirty-five years of age .
Chapter XXXVII .
“ ’ Tis he , past all doubt. ” “ What do you say ? ” “ Nothing , nothing .
“ Did you come here , sir , to see the telegraph ? ” he said .
The cardinal , in deep thought and in silence , began to take off the robes of state he had assumed in order to be present at the sitting of parliament , and to attire himself in the military coat , which he wore with a certain degree of easy grace , owing to his former campaigns in Italy .
Is it as good now ? ” “ Oh , yes , ” replied Andrea , laughing .
The crisis was terrible , and a rigid form with twisted limbs , swollen eyelids , and lips flecked with bloody foam , lay on the bed of torture , in place of the intellectual being who so lately rested there .
To come in the capacity of a cousin , and seat himself every day at a good table ; to smooth the yellow , wrinkled brow of the old procurator ; to pluck the clerks a little by teaching them _bassette_ , _passe-dix_ , and _lansquenet_ , in their utmost nicety , and winning from them , by way of fee for the lesson he would give them in an hour , their savings of a month—all this was enormously delightful to Porthos .
“ Why , if my information prove correct , a sort of Bonapartist conspiracy has just been discovered. ” “ Can I believe my ears ? ” cried the marquise .
The men themselves were almost dead with fatigue , but hope supported them .
Our Gascon knew , by the first glance of his eye , that his billet had been delivered , and that this billet had had its effect .
Henrietta Maria and Mazarin .
“ Have you a letter of audience ? ” asked a porter , advancing to the new arrival .
I believed I had a right to endeavor to find her .
You will forgive me , sir , for your heart is of such a generous nature that you can well understand all that has passed in mine .
We could scarcely have requested your mother to take a sword and fight us. ” “ Aha !
I shall hide myself in your cabin .
“ I wished to ask you if you ever feel any emotions of terror resembling—— ” “ Remorse !
“ I might not always be content with that answer , ” replied the visitor , “ for I come from one to whom everyone must be at home .
Yet this Catalan has eyes that glisten like those of the vengeful Spaniards , Sicilians , and Calabrians , and the other has fists big enough to crush an ox at one blow .
“ Near the barrels stood Selim , my father ’ s favorite , whom I mentioned to you just now .
They are only four ! ” A joyous smile lighted Porthos ’ s face .
But in what force was the enemy ?
A Puritan only adores virgins , and he adores them by clasping his hands .
“ You tell me , ” said Franz , at the moment Signor Pastrini was about to open his mouth , “ that you knew Luigi Vampa when he was a child—he is still a young man , then ? ” “ A young man ?
But during these five minutes the duke had had time to read again the note from Madame de Montbazon , which proved to the prisoner that his friends were concerting plans for his deliverance , but in what way he knew not .
“ It contained my fortune ! ” “ Bills upon Spain ? ” asked the disturbed host .
Besides even you didn ’ t recognize me ; they will be much less likely to. ” “ That is true , ” said Mordaunt , “ and they will be far from thinking of you .
In that earnest look might be read a deep reproach , as well as a terrible menace .
“ Oh , yes , ” said Buckingham , grating his teeth with rage .
“ I present to you , ” he said , “ Monsieur le Chevalier D ’ Artagnan , lieutenant of his majesty ’ s musketeers , a devoted friend and one of the most excellent , brave gentlemen that I have ever known. ” D ’ Artagnan received the compliments of those who were present in his own way , and whilst the conversation became general he looked earnestly at Athos .
He had made up his mind that he would go to the Palais-Cardinal , and that he would learn what his Eminence had to say to him .
“ Ah , what is that ? ” cried the brigadier .
“ Constance. ” “ Madame Bonacieux !
30349m “ M .
The officer leaped to the pier , and offered his hand to Milady .
That ’ s a frightful place , that Bastille !
Eugénie closed her eyes ; but though she could not see , she could hear , and the sneers of the crowd reached her in the carriage .
The rooms had been fitted up in strict accordance with Oriental ideas ; the floors were covered with the richest carpets Turkey could produce ; the walls hung with brocaded silk of the most magnificent designs and texture ; while around each chamber luxurious divans were placed , with piles of soft and yielding cushions , that needed only to be arranged at the pleasure or convenience of such as sought repose .
Suppose a watchman should pass ? ” And he blew out the light .
Her face was so passionless , that he , as every one else present , was incapable of reading her thoughts .
Dantès observed , however , that Faria , in spite of the relief his society afforded , daily grew sadder ; one thought seemed incessantly to harass and distract his mind .
“ What is the meaning of that noise ? ” “ Oh , my God ! ” cried Morrel , turning pale , “ what is it ? ” A loud noise was heard on the stairs of people moving hastily , and half-stifled sobs .
The queen then began to read , and after conversing with her affectionately for a few minutes , dismissed her .
‘ But , ’ said the count , ‘ so great was Ali Pasha ’ s confidence , that on his death-bed he resigned his favorite mistress and her daughter to my care. ’ ” Albert started on hearing these words ; the history of Haydée recurred to him , and he remembered what she had said of that message and the ring , and the manner in which she had been sold and made a slave .
In a recess was a kind of divan , surmounted with a stand of Arabian swords in silver scabbards , and the handles resplendent with gems ; from the ceiling hung a lamp of Venetian glass , of beautiful shape and color , while the feet rested on a Turkey carpet , in which they sunk to the instep ; tapestry hung before the door by which Franz had entered , and also in front of another door , leading into a second apartment which seemed to be brilliantly illuminated .
So little that it is not worth reckoning with the general stock. ” “ Now , then , let us calculate how much we posses in all. ” “ Porthos ? ” “ Thirty crowns. ” “ Aramis ? ” “ Ten pistoles. ” “ And you , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ Twenty-five. ” “ That makes in all ? ” said Athos .
Then he had made himself another enemy , less to be feared , he thought ; but nevertheless , he instinctively felt , not to be despised .
The gate of the enclosure was shut ; but he leaped over the hedge , and in spite of the barking of a chained-up dog , went up to the cabin .
“ Fortunately , she is far off , ” said Porthos , “ for I confess she would worry me if she were here. ” “ She worries me in England as well as in France , ” said Athos .
“ Well , ” said he to the young girl , “ are you willing , my dear Kitty , that I should give you a proof of that love which you doubt ? ” “ What love ? ” asked the young girl .
The fire crackled , and the smoke ascended like the dull vapor from a volcano ; but still no prisoner fell down , as they expected .
“ Shall we go forward ?
This note was in a different hand from the rest , which showed that it had been added since his confinement .
Redistribution is subject to the trademark license , especially commercial redistribution .
Credit , owing to the reports afloat , was no longer to be had ; and to meet the one hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the present month , and the one hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the next month to M. de Boville , M. Morrel had , in reality , no hope but the return of the _Pharaon_ , of whose departure he had learnt from a vessel which had weighed anchor at the same time , and which had already arrived in harbor .
The latter , on seeing these two noble lords who came to visit him , endeavored to raise himself up in his bed ; but he was too weak , and exhausted by the effort , he fell back again almost senseless .
A friend of ten years ’ standing could not have done more for us , or with a more perfect courtesy. ” “ Come , ” observed the countess , smiling , “ I see my vampire is only some millionaire , who has taken the appearance of Lara in order to avoid being confounded with M. de Rothschild ; and you have seen her ? ” “ Her ? ” 20183m “ The beautiful Greek of yesterday. ” “ No ; we heard , I think , the sound of her _guzla_ , but she remained perfectly invisible. ” “ When you say invisible , ” interrupted Albert , “ it is only to keep up the mystery ; for whom do you take the blue domino at the window with the white curtains ? ” “ Where was this window with white hangings ? ” asked the countess .
now we may say at last , thank Heaven !
For more than a month past , the mischievous child , who knew not what to wish for , had taken it into his head to have a monkey .
Look at me , madame—at me , whom you accuse of speaking loud and threateningly .
“ A true friend ’ s eloquence is so powerful , my lord , that you have reassured me .
All the other guests followed .
The rest of the dinner was to come .
“ Although in reality a Liberal , he negotiated a loan of six millions for Charles X. , in 1829 , who made him a baron and chevalier of the Legion of Honor ; so that he wears the ribbon , not , as you would think , in his waistcoat-pocket , but at his button-hole. ” “ Ah , ” interrupted Morcerf , laughing , “ Beauchamp , Beauchamp , keep that for the _Corsaire_ or the _Charivari_ , but spare my future father-in-law before me. ” Then , turning to Monte Cristo , “ You just now spoke his name as if you knew the baron ? ” “ I do not know him , ” returned Monte Cristo ; “ but I shall probably soon make his acquaintance , for I have a credit opened with him by the house of Richard & Blount , of London , Arstein & Eskeles of Vienna , and Thomson & French at Rome. ” As he pronounced the two last names , the count glanced at Maximilian Morrel .
The bad side of human thought will always be defined by the paradox of Jean Jacques Rousseau , —you remember , —the mandarin who is killed five hundred leagues off by raising the tip of the finger .
For you must indeed be a great chemist , and the elixir you administered to my son , which recalled him to life almost instantaneously—— ” 30077m “ Oh , do not place any reliance on that , madame ; _one_ drop of that elixir sufficed to recall life to a dying child , but three drops would have impelled the blood into his lungs in such a way as to have produced most violent palpitations ; six would have suspended his respiration , and caused syncope more serious than that in which he was ; ten would have destroyed him .
“ And the other ? ” asked Athos .
The cannon will warn everyone to refuse shelter to a man wandering about naked and famished .
“ I hope so , ” was the reply .
I see you require proofs .
“ Because , ” replied Franz , “ you seem to me like a man who , persecuted by society , has a fearful account to settle with it. ” “ Ah ! ” responded Sinbad , laughing with his singular laugh , which displayed his white and sharp teeth .
There are certain forms necessary to be gone through , and which are always the same .
On the evening of the 4th of September , M. Morrel asked his daughter for the key of his study .
Danglars , who thought himself threatened ( certain consciences are never calm ) , —Danglars even before his guests showed a countenance of abject terror .
Then the idea seized him that he had read incorrectly , and that the appointment was for eleven o ’ clock .
Did you ever see that man before ? ” “ He came twice to Milady ’ s. ” “ That ’ s it .
de Villefort ! ” cried the king , “ is the messenger ’ s name M. de Villefort ? ” “ Yes , sire. ” “ And he comes from Marseilles ? ” “ In person. ” “ Why did you not mention his name at once ? ” replied the king , betraying some uneasiness .
This commissary was a man of very repulsive mien , with a pointed nose , with yellow and salient cheek bones , with eyes small but keen and penetrating , and an expression of countenance resembling at once the polecat and the fox .
There is the Prince de Condé—— ” “ The hero of Rocroy .
“ I was wondering what could be the significance of this purse , with the paper at one end and the large diamond at the other. ” “ Count , ” replied Maximilian , with an air of gravity , “ those are our most precious family treasures. ” “ The stone seems very brilliant , ” answered the count .
The way was therefore opened to the four friends with all sorts of Puritan congratulations .
“ How do you feel , Barrois ? ” asked he .
“ This man , who was hastening towards the wood , was already three-quarters of the way on the road from the grotto to the forest .
All were fully engrossed with the affairs of the day ; Athos could not therefore have chosen a more inauspicious moment to speak of his friends—poor atoms , lost in that raging whirlwind .
“ Yes , the queen !
“ The Red Duke is capital .
I can not see ! ” “ Help , help , my friends !
But I am eager to see our young vicomte .
“ Thank God you have come ! ” “ Eh !
“ What say you to that , Monsieur du Vallon ? ” he added in a low tone to Porthos .
This gun had an excellent barrel , made at Brescia , and carrying a ball with the precision of an English rifle ; but one day the count broke the stock , and had then cast the gun aside .
“ What ails you ? ” said he at length .
“ Well ! ” answered the boy , “ the thing is done. ” “ Where is he gone ? ” “ The half-pistole is for me ? ” “ Doubtless , answer me. ” “ I want to see it .
Instead of returning , then , by the Saint Honore gate , D ’ Artagnan , who had time before him , walked around and re-entered by the Porte Richelieu .
You may copy it , give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org .
A Frondeur !
“ As happy as possible ; and yet , sir , you may make me even happier than I am. ” “ Well , speak , if it depends on me. ” “ Oh , sir !
“ Because if , as you say , Athos and Aramis are in real danger , this is not the time to abandon them .
Let me conduct your business and my own .
When I ring once , it is for my valet ; twice , for my majordomo ; thrice , for my steward , —thus I do not waste a minute or a word .
I then recollected you gave a breakfast this morning , and here I am .
Come , courage !
de Chevreuse .
Chapter LVII .
D ’ Artagnan , meantime , pursued his way with the indifference of a man upon whom such acts of folly made no impression .
I shall be happy to meet you again , sir. ” “ May the devil annihilate me if I return thy wish ! ” murmured D ’ Artagnan , smiling as he pronounced the imprecation ; “ I declare I feel quite ill after only being five minutes in the courtyard .
He , who for so long a time had forgotten God , began to think that miracles were possible—that the accursed cavern might be discovered by the officers of the Papal States , who would release him ; that then he would have 50,000 remaining , which would be sufficient to save him from starvation ; and finally he prayed that this sum might be preserved to him , and as he prayed he wept .
During this passage , Felton related everything to Milady—how , instead of going to London , he had chartered the little vessel ; how he had returned ; how he had scaled the wall by fastening cramps in the interstices of the stones , as he ascended , to give him foothold ; and how , when he had reached the bars , he fastened his ladder .
Latterly I heard his friend , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , give him that name. ” “ That is it , madame , that is the same .
This evening , then , at a quarter to nine at the gate .
The attack which has just passed away , condemns me forever to the walls of a prison .
The latter continued in thought .
“ This is all very strange , ” said M. de Tréville , after meditating a minute ; “ you mentioned my name , then , aloud ? ” “ Yes , sir , I certainly committed that imprudence ; but why should I have done otherwise ?
“ The pope and Cæsar Borgia first found the two future cardinals ; they were Giovanni Rospigliosi , who held four of the highest dignities of the Holy See , and Cæsar Spada , one of the noblest and richest of the Roman nobility ; both felt the high honor of such a favor from the pope .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied the coachman .
He stood with his arms folded , apparently as calm as any man could be in such circumstances .
Bassompierre and Schomberg , against the Duc d ’ Angoulême .
What could they desire beyond their liberty ?
It formed part of the nuptial present he made his wife , and it is magnificent .
Give these happy tidings to your sister , my dear cousin .
You see we were quite right to pacify that country. ” “ Yes ; but Don Carlos ? ” “ Well , Don Carlos will drink Bordeaux , and in ten years we will marry his son to the little queen. ” “ You will then obtain the Golden Fleece , if you are still in the ministry. ” “ I think , Albert , you have adopted the system of feeding me on smoke this morning. ” “ Well , you must allow it is the best thing for the stomach ; but I hear Beauchamp in the next room ; you can dispute together , and that will pass away the time. ” “ About what ? ” “ About the papers. ” “ My dear friend , ” said Lucien with an air of sovereign contempt , “ do I ever read the papers ? ” “ Then you will dispute the more. ” “ M .
“ Madame , ” said the Viscount of Morcerf , advancing towards the countess , “ yesterday you were so condescending as to promise me a galop ; I am rather late in claiming this gracious promise , but here is my friend , whose character for veracity you well know , and he will assure you the delay arose from no fault of mine. ” And as at this moment the orchestra gave the signal for the waltz , Albert put his arm round the waist of the countess , and disappeared with her in the whirl of dancers .
Its agent , who will in ten minutes present himself to receive the amount of a bill of 287,500 francs , I will not say granted , but offered me three months .
He easily understood why his son did not come to see him before he went to avenge his father ’ s honor ; but when that was done , why did not his son come and throw himself into his arms ?
“ I passed the day and the night in prayer , for I hoped that God would pardon me my suicide .
If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” associated with or appearing on the work , you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
He goes two or three times a week. ” “ Dost thou know Noisy well ? ” “ I think so , truly ; my nurse lives there. ” “ Is there a convent at Noisy ? ” “ Isn ’ t there a great and grand one—the convent of Jesuits ? ” “ What is thy name ? ” “ Friquet. ” D ’ Artagnan wrote the child ’ s name in his tablets .
Calmly drawing forth from his pocket a small box covered with black shagreen , the abbé opened it , and displayed to the dazzled eyes of Caderousse the sparkling jewel it contained , set in a ring of admirable workmanship .
CONCERNING A COURT INTRIGUE In the meantime , the forty pistoles of King Louis XIII. , like all other things of this world , after having had a beginning had an end , and after this end our four companions began to be somewhat embarrassed .
D ’ Artagnan eagerly searched for the heading of this letter ; it was dated from the Chateau du Vallon .
I know you are not rich , Madame Coquenard , and that your husband is obliged to bleed his poor clients to squeeze a few paltry crowns from them .
He looked at D ’ Artagnan with an expression of gratitude and then bestowed on Raoul one of those strange smiles , of which children are so proud when they receive them .
“ But you may use it , ” replied Lord Wilmore ; “ I understand it. ” “ And I , ” replied the visitor , changing his idiom , “ know enough of English to keep up the conversation .
The more this young man was superior to others , the more he was to be dreaded if he meant to deceive him .
“ They fire like grooms , ” said Porthos .
See , John , see how well she knows how to handle a knife. ” In fact , Milady still held the harmless weapon in her clenched hand ; but these last words , this supreme insult , relaxed her hands , her strength , and even her will .
On their side the mother and daughter retired into the embrasure of a window to read eagerly the following letter : “ Dear Wife , —We have now reached the moment of decision .
Bathed in tears she wandered about the Catalan village .
“ My good dame , ” asked D ’ Artagnan , “ can you tell me what has become of one of my friends , whom we were obliged to leave here about a dozen days ago ? ” “ A handsome young man , three- or four-and-twenty years old , mild , amiable , and well made ? ” “ That is he—wounded in the shoulder. ” “ Just so .
we have him ! ” cried the horsemen , rushing on D ’ Artagnan with naked swords .
Even if you gained the yard , there would still be three iron gates for you to pass .
Bonacieux , without any suspicion , accompanied her .
Thinking that I might wish to settle in France , he left me at his departure , together with the papers establishing my identity , a letter promising , if he approved of my choice , 150,000 livres per annum from the day I was married .
I think it would be well to sleep here and to start again very early to-morrow .
As soon as he appeared in the Count of Morcerf ’ s antechamber , a footman , the same who at Rome had brought the count ’ s card to the two young men , and announced his visit , sprang into the vestibule , and when he arrived at the door the illustrious traveller found his carriage awaiting him .
The two friends made the prisoners enter the house first , whilst they stood at the door , desiring Mousqueton to take the four horses to the stable .
“ From Athos ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , recognizing the handwriting .
“ The devil take the madman ! ” murmured M. de Tréville , “ unless , ” added he , “ this is a cunning mode of escaping , seeing that he had failed in his purpose ! ” Chapter IV .
While Monte Cristo had begged the smelling-bottle of Madame de Villefort , he had noticed the approach of Villefort to Madame Danglars , and he soon guessed all that had passed between them , though the words had been uttered in so low a voice as hardly to be heard by Madame Danglars .
“ Oh , ” he said , “ he is mad ! ” And as though he feared that the walls of the accursed house would crumble around him , he rushed into the street , for the first time doubting whether he had the right to do as he had done .
As Morrel and his son embraced on the pier-head , in the presence and amid the applause of the whole city witnessing this event , a man , with his face half-covered by a black beard , and who , concealed behind the sentry-box , watched the scene with delight , uttered these words in a low tone : “ Be happy , noble heart , be blessed for all the good thou hast done and wilt do hereafter , and let my gratitude remain in obscurity like your good deeds. ” 20064m And with a smile expressive of supreme content , he left his hiding-place , and without being observed , descended one of the flights of steps provided for debarkation , and hailing three times , shouted “ Jacopo , Jacopo , Jacopo ! ” Then a launch came to shore , took him on board , and conveyed him to a yacht splendidly fitted up , on whose deck he sprung with the activity of a sailor ; thence he once again looked towards Morrel , who , weeping with joy , was shaking hands most cordially with all the crowd around him , and thanking with a look the unknown benefactor whom he seemed to be seeking in the skies .
She held in her hand a fresh billet from Milady .
“ What is the matter ? ” asked Milady .
“ As for me , ” answered Porthos , “ I wish my lord cardinal , in order to do honor to my house , which gives him an asylum , would in remembrance of this adventure erect my estate into a barony , with a promise to confer that order on one of my particular friends , whenever his majesty next creates peers. ” “ You know , sir , that before receiving the order one must submit proofs. ” “ My friends will submit them .
Through one of the windows of the bedroom , on a line with that in the dressing-room , the count could see into the street .
“ Had his Majesty , ” asked he , “ any intention of holding this hunting party yesterday ? ” “ No , your Excellency , ” replied the valet de chambre , “ the Master of the Hounds came this morning to inform him that he had marked down a stag .
He found Edmond lying prone , bleeding , and almost senseless .
The overture to the second act began ; and , at the first sound of the leader ’ s bow across his violin , Franz observed the sleeper slowly arise and approach the Greek girl , who turned around to say a few words to him , and then , leaning forward again on the railing of her box , she became as absorbed as before in what was going on .
But you tell me he is no more , and therefore can have nothing to do with hatred or revenge , so let all such feeling be buried with him. ” “ You prefer , then , ” said the abbé , “ that I should bestow on men you say are false and treacherous , the reward intended for faithful friendship ? ” “ That is true enough , ” returned Caderousse .
“ Yes , if I am killed , ” said Albert , laughing .
“ I think so , indeed ; we should be hard to please if we were not .
What did he say to me ?
You have a good memory ; repeat what I have told you .
I believe the fellow is here on his own account , for I have heard that these gentlemen born beyond the Tweed are very vindictive .
He had often heard that shipwrecked persons had died through having eagerly devoured too much food .
Then who loads his pistol ? ” “ His servant. ” “ A Nubian ? ” “ A negro. ” “ It is he , then. ” “ Do you know this gentleman ? ” “ Yes , and I am come to look for him ; he is a friend of mine. ” “ Oh , that is quite another thing , then .
Perhaps I shall stand in need of a back door for retreat. ” “ You think of everything. ” “ And you forget one thing. ” “ What ? ” “ To ask me if I want money. ” “ That ’ s true .
Oh , I am dying ! ” He again fainted .
And a gentleman to hobnob with a bailiff ! ” “ Porthos , ” said Aramis , “ Athos has already told you that you are a simpleton , and I am quite of his opinion .
He was eighteen , only three years older than you are , Raoul , when I saw him set to work , pitted against tried men. ” “ And did Monsieur D ’ Artagnan come off the conqueror ? ” asked the young man , with glistening eye .
He stifled , therefore , the feelings of compassion that were rising , composed his features , and sat down , grim and sombre , at his desk .
With one wave of his hand Athos made Grimaud , who followed the little troop , understand everything , and they passed on like a whirlwind , D ’ Artagnan still directing them from behind with his voice .
I must have lost it , ” said the young man maliciously , pretending to search for it .
The officer sprang out of the apartment with that alacrity which all the servants of the cardinal displayed in obeying him .
Milady sat down to table , ate from several dishes , drank a little Spanish wine , and felt all her resolution return .
“ Albert is ten minutes after time. ” “ There he comes , ” said Beauchamp , “ on horseback , at full gallop , followed by a servant. ” “ How imprudent , ” said Château-Renaud , “ to come on horseback to fight a duel with pistols , after all the instructions I had given him. ” “ And besides , ” said Beauchamp , “ with a collar above his cravat , an open coat and white waistcoat !
You would hardly have recited your touching history before it would go forth to the world , and be deemed unlikely and unnatural .
At length they entered a path which , going out from the road , skirted the mountainside .
D ’ Artagnan then thought of that cottage , silent and obscure , which had no doubt seen all , and could tell its tale .
He would have spoken , but his voice failed him .
when I leave him , I place in my stead a bold fellow who aspires to be his majesty ’ s special guard .
as to conditions , you would soon see how moderate and reasonable we are ! ” “ Come , now , what are your conditions ? ” “ Rest yourself first , my lord , and we—we will reflect. ” “ I do not need rest , gentlemen ; I need to know whether I am among enemies or friends. ” “ Friends , my lord !
People are found every day in the Seine , having thrown themselves in , or having been drowned from not knowing how to swim. ” “ Father , you know very well that the general was not a man to drown himself in despair , and people do not bathe in the Seine in the month of January .
“ Belay. ” This order was also executed ; and the vessel passed , as Dantès had predicted , twenty fathoms to windward .
“ Good ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ a quarter of an hour to go to the tent , a quarter of an hour to return ; it is more than we need. ” Then turning , without the least change of countenance , to Porthos , he said , looking him full in the face : “ Friend Porthos , listen to this ; first , not a syllable to either of our friends of what you have heard ; it is unnecessary for them to know the service we are going to render them. ” “ Very well ; I understand. ” “ Go to the stable ; you will find Mousqueton there ; saddle your horses , put your pistols in your saddle-bags , take out the horses and lead them to the street below this , so that there will be nothing to do but mount them ; all the rest is my business. ” Porthos made no remark , but obeyed , with the sublime confidence he had in his friend .
“ My son , ” said Anne of Austria , pointing to the musketeer , calm , standing uncovered , “ here is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , who is as brave as one of those ancient heroes of whom you like so much to hear from my women .
“ I have , then , to inform you , sir , at the request of M. de Villefort , that your projected marriage with Mademoiselle de Villefort has changed the feeling of M. Noirtier towards his grandchild , and that he disinherits her entirely of the fortune he would have left her .
I have always observed that they bandage people ’ s eyes who penetrate enchanted palaces , for instance , those of Raoul in the _Huguenots_ , and really I have nothing to complain of , for what I see makes me think of the wonders of the _Arabian Nights_. ” 20079m “ Alas !
He was received by Baptistin .
It will be remembered that Monte Cristo had made a lively impression on the minds of all the party assembled at the breakfast given by Albert de Morcerf ; and although Debray was not in the habit of yielding to such feelings , he had never been able to shake off the powerful influence excited in his mind by the impressive look and manner of the count , consequently the description given by Lucien to the baroness bore the highly-colored tinge of his own heated imagination .
At the end of five hundred paces , more or less , they came to a rivulet , which they forded .
“ Good !
In fact , ten minutes had scarcely passed away when the door of the king ’ s closet opened , and M. de Tréville saw M. de la Trémouille come out .
Grimaud drew out a pistol .
Danglars followed his guide without opposition , and had no occasion to turn around to see whether the three others were following him .
Collect all your courage , for you have not yet heard all. ” “ Ah , ” exclaimed Madame Danglars , alarmed , “ what is there more to hear ? ” “ You only look back to the past , and it is , indeed , bad enough .
Then Albert launched out in praise of Mademoiselle Danglars ’ voice , and on his regret , after what he had just heard , that he had been unable to be present the previous evening .
No , I feel that I have reached the goal , and I will go no farther .
“ Praise God , monsieur , ” replied they , bowing together .
Milady passed her two arms round Felton ’ s neck , and let herself slip out of the window .
“ Yes , we did some fine things in our time and we gave that poor cardinal a few threads to unravel. ” And he heaved a sigh .
Bonacieux dead , and to D ’ Artagnan , whom Porthos and Aramis were trying to recall to life .
The quarters of Monsieur were at Dompierre ; the quarters of the king were sometimes at Estrée , sometimes at Jarrie ; the cardinal ’ s quarters were upon the downs , at the bridge of La Pierre , in a simple house without any entrenchment .
“ What is the matter , my lord ? ” said Athos , “ and what puts you out of breath thus ? ” “ Nothing , ” replied De Winter ; “ nothing ; and yet in passing the heights it seemed to me—— ” and he again turned round .
He had not long to wait , for the queen scarcely remained a quarter of an hour with Mazarin , but this quarter of an hour of expectation appeared a century to him .
Put a good supply of rum and biscuit in it for the seamen ; should the night happen to be stormy they will not be sorry to find something to console themselves with. ” “ Consider all this done .
I shall hear this morning that M. Danglars make a speech at the Chamber of Deputies , and at his wife ’ s this evening I shall hear the tragedy of a peer of France .
The door was wide open , a hackney-coach was standing in the middle of the yard—a strange sight before so noble a mansion ; the count looked at it with terror , but without daring to inquire its meaning , he rushed towards his apartment .
He was an athletic , gigantic bandit , with large eyes , thick lips , and a flat nose ; his red hair fell in dishevelled masses like snakes around his shoulders .
Villefort ’ s only answer was a stifled groan .
M. de Villefort was therefore obliged to request M. d ’ Avrigny to superintend all the arrangements consequent upon a death in a large city , more especially a death under such suspicious circumstances .
“ You have suffered a great deal , sir ? ” said Franz inquiringly .
A woman with Athos !
The next morning at the same hour , the jailer came again .
“ The Count of Monte Cristo is always an early riser ; and I can answer for his having been up these two hours. ” “ Then you really consider we shall not be intruding if we pay our respects to him directly ? ” 20155m “ Oh , I am quite sure .
The king ’ s request had undoubtedly been acceded to by an affirmative sign , for in firm , sonorous accents , which vibrated in the depths of Athos ’ s heart , the king began his speech , explaining his conduct and counseling the welfare of the kingdom .
suppose he is dead and that this property now belongs to some one who bears his name .
Or , s ’ blood , my brave Athos will die ! ” At the cries of M. de Tréville , the whole assemblage rushed into the cabinet , he not thinking to shut the door against anyone , and all crowded round the wounded man .
Here I am at your eminence ’ s service , as well as Monsieur du Vallon , one of my old friends , who used to conceal his nobility under the name of Porthos. ” Porthos bowed to the cardinal .
I may continue to rely upon it , may I not ? ” “ Oh , sire ! ” cried the four companions , with one voice , “ we would allow ourselves to be cut to pieces in your Majesty ’ s service. ” “ Well , well , but keep whole ; that will be better , and you will be more useful to me .
“ Ah , it is you , Peppino , ” said the count .
Although the day had been fatiguing , neither of them was inclined to sleep .
Patrick discreetly kept in the background .
“ _Permesso_ ? ” inquired he .
“ Here ’ s a promising fellow and it is I who have found out his merits , ” said Monsieur de Chavigny .
Baptistin will tell you where , if you do not know their address .
Of what consequence to me is imprisonment or death ? ” “ It is I who no longer understand you , madame , ” said Felton .
This will give a faint idea of the Carnival at Rome .
You can not mean that ! ” “ Ah , my dear Monsieur Bonacieux , you are generous in this matter .
Henrietta Maria and Mazarin .
“ She was walking with her nurse Marceline , in the place where the woodmen cut the wood , when , passing on horseback , I stopped .
Fortunately , nothing is lost by this delay , and you are now about to hear it .
I suspect a hoax is intended , but the instigators of it little knew whom they had to deal with .
‘ Go into the grotto and dress yourself. ’ “ At these words he drew away the stone , and showed Teresa the grotto , lighted up by two wax lights , which burnt on each side of a splendid mirror ; on a rustic table , made by Luigi , were spread out the pearl necklace and the diamond pins , and on a chair at the side was laid the rest of the costume .
“ _My Lord , do you remember the little goat pasture of the Luxembourg ? _ ” “ Good , _the Luxembourg ! _ One might believe this is an allusion to the queen-mother !
“ I have just sent away the sentinel that I might remain here without anybody knowing it , in order to speak to you without being overheard .
“ For pity ’ s sake , ” he cried , pale and bewildered , without seeing whom he was addressing , — “ for pity ’ s sake do not call assistance !
She turned towards him with a serene smile just at the moment he was bowing to her .
Charles was perceived through the door , lying dressed upon his bed , at the head of which Parry was seated , reading in a low voice a chapter from the Bible .
When all had gone out and the door was closed , M. de Tréville , on turning round , found himself alone with the young man .
Fine vengeance that , on my faith ! ” A cold sweat broke from D ’ Artagnan ’ s brow .
The wise , unerring Faria could not be mistaken in this one thing .
“ Yes , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , bowing , “ we have had that honor .
The very madness of the Abbé Faria , gone mad in prison , condemned him to perpetual captivity .
The only thing I recollect is that I awoke in bed in a round chamber , the furniture of which was sumptuous , and into which light only penetrated by an opening in the ceiling .
Die in peace ! ” “ I am lost ! ” murmured Milady in English .
“ Well , what is it ? ” asked Louis XVIII .
“ Yes. ” Noirtier raised his eyes , it was the sign agreed on between him and Valentine when he wanted anything .
Planchet , D ’ Artagnan ’ s valet , supported his good fortune nobly .
“ We are almost there and I want no one to see me getting out of your carriage ; we are supposed not to know each other. ” “ You are right .
Everything was conducted in the usual manner .
What do you wish for ?
They might have been supposed to be following tracks , so observant were they wherever they went .
Do not believe what Albert is telling you , countess ; so far from the sensation excited in the Parisian circles by the appearance of the Count of Monte Cristo having abated , I take upon myself to declare that it is as strong as ever .
“ Undoubtedly , ” said Villefort , moderating the tones of his voice , “ a marriage once concerted and then broken off , throws a sort of discredit on a young lady ; then again , the old reports , which I was so anxious to put an end to , will instantly gain ground .
It is not because Mademoiselle Valentine is going to marry you that he is angry , but because she will marry , a union with any other would have caused him the same sorrow .
I took the wall you are mining for the outer wall of the fortress. ” “ But then you would be close to the sea ? ” “ That is what I hoped. ” “ And supposing you had succeeded ? ” “ I should have thrown myself into the sea , gained one of the islands near here—the Isle de Daume or the Isle de Tiboulen—and then I should have been safe. ” “ Could you have swum so far ? ” “ Heaven would have given me strength ; but now all is lost. ” “ All ? ” “ Yes ; stop up your excavation carefully , do not work any more , and wait until you hear from me. ” “ Tell me , at least , who you are ? ” “ I am—I am No .
I persist , then , madame , in my wish ” ( he laid an emphasis on the word ) , “ that your majesty should receive the coadjutor. ” “ And wherefore do you not say , like the rest , your will ? ” replied the queen , in a low voice .
Then the cardinal put out the waxlight , slipped it into his pocket , and taking up the lantern : “ Now , ” he said , “ for Monsieur de la Fere. ” “ Very good , ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ ’ tis our road likewise ; we will go together. ” All three set off on their walk , Mazarin taking the middle alley and the friends the side ones .
“ And I renew my promise .
He was of middle height ; but his person was so admirably shaped and so well proportioned that more than once in his struggles with Porthos he had overcome the giant whose physical strength was proverbial among the Musketeers .
Upon reaching their stalls , they found the whole of the audience in the parterre standing up and directing their gaze towards the box formerly possessed by the Russian ambassador .
Go in whatever guise you choose ; for my part , I shall go unarmed. ” “ No , for I will not allow you to do so .
This time , however , his address , although polite , was cooler than usual .
“ I waited your orders , ” said D ’ Artagnan , crossing swords .
During the days of his prosperity , not a festivity took place without himself and wife being among the spectators .
Haydée was awaiting her visitors in the first room of her apartments , which was the drawing-room .
The Journey Chapter 86 .
Act , then , as you think proper ; there is still time to withdraw. ” “ No , monsieur , no ; you appear to be an honest young man , and I will have confidence in you .
“ What !
“ Oh , yes , ” said she , smiling , “ but we won ’ t tell him ! ” In the evening Lord de Winter accompanied the supper .
The worthy man , restored to perfect health , was tasting the fine fruit which Madame de Longueville had sent to him .
Ah , I can understand that .
Unluckily , I hit him on the head and immediately his face was covered with blood. ” “ And he said nothing as he died ? ” “ Yes ; he exclaimed , ‘ Oh ! ’ ” “ I suppose , ” answered D ’ Artagnan , laughing , “ if he only said that , it did not enlighten you much. ” “ Well , sir ! ” cried the queen .
Then he placed a sentinel at each door , with an order to admit nobody upon any pretense but his _valet de chambre_ , Patrick .
“ Then adieu , Valentine ! ” Valentine shook the gate with a strength of which she could not have been supposed to be possessed , as Morrel was going away , and passing both her hands through the opening , she clasped and wrung them .
“ Alas !
“ Others besides you have undergone such , Monsieur Athos , and have replied thereto. ” “ Thus I have told your Eminence that you had but to question us , and we are ready to reply. ” “ What was that letter you were about to read , Monsieur Aramis , and which you so promptly concealed ? ” “ A woman ’ s letter , monseigneur. ” “ Ah , yes , I see , ” said the cardinal ; “ we must be discreet with this sort of letters ; but nevertheless , we may show them to a confessor , and you know I have taken orders. ” “ Monseigneur , ” said Athos , with a calmness the more terrible because he risked his head in making this reply , “ the letter is a woman ’ s letter , but it is neither signed Marion de Lorme , nor Madame d ’ Aiguillon. ” The cardinal became as pale as death ; lightning darted from his eyes .
“ Oh , no , no ! ” cried Milady ; “ no , sir , do not call him , I conjure you .
His hatred , like a powerless though furious wave , was broken against the strong ascendancy which Mercédès exercised over him .
I will make you all captains , with good pensions !
“ Silence ! ” “ But you promised me— ” whispered the poor mercer .
Against whom do they cry out ?
Bassompierre and Schomberg were marshals of France , and claimed their right of commanding the army under the orders of the king ; but the cardinal , who feared that Bassompierre , a Huguenot at heart , might press but feebly the English and Rochellais , his brothers in religion , supported the Duc d ’ Angoulême , whom the king , at his instigation , had named lieutenant general .
“ You are certainly an extraordinary man , ” said Danglars ; “ and philosophers may well say it is a fine thing to be rich. ” “ And to have ideas , ” added Madame Danglars .
“ At length he interrogates me ! ” said Milady to herself , at the height of joy at having obtained so quickly such a great result .
“ Villainous host ! ” cried he , “ he has given us Anjou wine instead of champagne , and fancies we know no better !
There was a moment ’ s silence , then the carriage cleared the gate .
“ Just what you please ; you may speak of her country and of her youthful reminiscences , or if you like it better you can talk of Rome , Naples , or Florence. ” “ Oh , ” said Albert , “ it is of no use to be in the company of a Greek if one converses just in the same style as with a Parisian ; let me speak to her of the East. ” “ Do so then , for of all themes which you could choose that will be the most agreeable to her taste. ” Albert turned towards Haydée .
Dying in the arms of his children , he had been by them laid by the side of his wife , who had preceded him in eternity by two years .
He moved away , walked up and down his cell to collect his thoughts , and then went back and listened .
And so , my friends , we return to Paris ?
I feel cramps over my whole body. ” “ Do you find any dazzling sensation before the eyes ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Any noise in the ears ? ” “ Frightful. ” 40112m “ When did you first feel that ? ” “ Just now. ” “ Suddenly ? ” “ Yes , like a clap of thunder. ” “ Did you feel nothing of it yesterday or the day before ? ” “ Nothing. ” “ No drowsiness ? ” “ None. ” “ What have you eaten today ? ” “ I have eaten nothing ; I only drank a glass of my master ’ s lemonade—that ’ s all. ” And Barrois turned towards Noirtier , who , immovably fixed in his armchair , was contemplating this terrible scene without allowing a word or a movement to escape him .
Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States .
“ But , pardon , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with the most charming smile and putting his hand on the young man ’ s shoulder , “ if the illustrious General Oliver Cromwell has disposed of our prisoners in your favour , he has , of course , made that act of donation in writing. ” Mordaunt stopped short .
When he reached the landing he placed the armchair on the floor and rapidly rolled it into Valentine ’ s room .
Let his eminence do me the honor to give me a hearing ; that is all I want. ” “ Oh ! ” muttered Porthos , shaking his head , “ never should I have thought this of him !
“ Three hundred pistoles. ” “ Oh , plenty !
“ Come , ” said he to the abbé , “ I am anxious to see your treasures. ” The abbé smiled , and , proceeding to the disused fireplace , raised , by the help of his chisel , a long stone , which had doubtless been the hearth , beneath which was a cavity of considerable depth , serving as a safe depository of the articles mentioned to Dantès .
Ten minutes afterward Mazarin entered the court of that chateau which his predecessor had built for him at Rueil ; as he alighted , Comminges approached him .
Where are you going ? ” cried the two Musketeers in a breath .
Oh !
“ Oh , nothing worth speaking of , ” said Morrel ; “ M .
“ As to that , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , after a moment of reflection , “ I shall surmount it , be assured. ” “ How so ? ” “ I will go this very evening to Tréville , whom I will request to ask this favor for me of his brother-in-law , Monsieur Dessessart. ” “ But another thing. ” “ What ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan , seeing that Mme .
The tocsin was sounded .
The Telegraph Chapter 61 .
But one fine day I learned that the mover of this telegraph was only a poor wretch , hired for twelve hundred francs a year , and employed all day , not in studying the heavens like an astronomer , or in gazing on the water like an angler , or even in enjoying the privilege of observing the country around him , but all his monotonous life was passed in watching his white-bellied , black-clawed fellow insect , four or five leagues distant from him .
The diamond which glittered in the window at Marlé ’ s or Fossin ’ s shines with more splendor when it is our own ; but if we are compelled to acknowledge the superiority of another , and still must retain the one that is inferior , do you not know what we have to endure ? ” “ Worldling , ” murmured the count .
The marshal then entered the Rue Saint Honore , but there he was opposed by the barricades of the mendicant of Saint Eustache .
Oh , those figures , how well I remember them !
As to your rank , an annual income of 50,000 livres will enable you to support it admirably .
Nobody knows who she is , or where she comes from .
It was only poisoned to the Abbé Adelmonte .
One day he had the imprudence to recall himself to the memory of the cardinal .
England is torn in twain by a spirit of disturbance which , I greatly fear , blood alone can exorcise. ” “ But Lord Montrose , ” replied the queen , “ I have heard of his great and rapid successes of battles gained .
The count left his box , and a moment later was saluting the Baronne Danglars , who could not restrain a cry of mingled pleasure and surprise .
“ Here is the passport , ” said the postilion , “ which way are we going , young gentleman ? ” “ To Fontainebleau , ” replied Eugénie with an almost masculine voice .
Then turning toward the second musketeer , D ’ Artagnan said : “ Monsieur du Verger , help me to place this man in a place of safety. ” The musketeer , thinking that his lieutenant had just arrested some prince in disguise , bowed , and drawing his sword , signified that he was ready .
Sometimes he hoped it could not be Mme .
He was—nay , probably may still be—a Bonapartist , and is called Noirtier ; I , on the contrary , am a staunch royalist , and style myself de Villefort .
Milady uttered a cry of joy ; this man was the Comte de Rochefort—the demoniacal tool of his Eminence .
“ I am at home to nobody , ” said Milady ; “ observe , to _nobody_. ” The servant went out .
Coquenard , who knew that a simple-minded procurator was a very rare variety in the species , smiled a little , and colored a great deal .
But instead of finding sympathy in the eyes of the doctor and his father , he only saw an expression as inflexible as that of Maximilian .
Scarcely had they entered , when she motioned to Franz to assume the seat of honor .
If I had them I should think myself as rich as Croesus. ” Then aloud : “ Are you ambitious ? ” “ As Enceladus. ” “ Well , my friend , I bring you the means of becoming rich , powerful , and free to do whatever you wish. ” The shadow of a cloud passed over Aramis ’ s face as quickly as that which in August passes over the field of grain ; but quick as it was , it did not escape D ’ Artagnan ’ s observation .
Every one nowadays wants auxiliaries ; propositions have been made to me and I confess to you frankly that the coadjutor has made me speak out. ” “ Monsieur de Gondy !
had already placed his hand on the knob of the door ; at the noise of M. de Tréville ’ s entrance he turned round .
“ Yes , without the saddle. ” “ You will observe , gentlemen , ” said Athos , “ that Porthos has made the best bargain of any of us. ” And then commenced a roar of laughter in which they all joined , to the astonishment of poor Porthos ; but when he was informed of the cause of their hilarity , he shared it vociferously according to his custom .
The duke followed him with his eyes , with involuntary terror .
If I mistake not you are an admirer of paintings , at least I judged so from the attention you appeared to be bestowing on mine when I entered the room .
The Pont du Gard Inn Chapter 27 .
Madame de Saintot has hastened to him with broth ; La Renaudot warms his sheets ; the Marquise de Rambouillet sends him his tisanes. ” “ You don ’ t like him , my dear Parthenie , ” said Scarron .
To remain silent and dignified in his presence ; from time to time to irritate him by affected disdain , by a contemptuous word ; to provoke him to threats and violence which would produce a contrast with her own resignation—such was her plan .
Many , also , who were not aware of the circumstances attending his withdrawal from Paris , were struck with the worthy appearance , the gentlemanly bearing , and the knowledge of the world displayed by the old patrician , who certainly played the nobleman very well , so long as he said nothing , and made no arithmetical calculations .
They are too much taken up with interfering in the affairs of their countrymen who travel. ” “ Now you get angry , and attack our poor agents .
“ I have ; if it were only possible to place a deaf and blind sentinel in the gallery beyond us. ” “ He shall be both blind and deaf , ” replied the young man , with an air of determination that made his companion shudder .
Besides , the appearance of the caravan was formidable .
“ ‘ Count of Morcerf , ’ said the president , ‘ do not allow yourself to be cast down ; answer .
That which I had done by the impulse of my best feelings produced the same effect as though it had been the result of calculation .
“ But how do you procure a light ? ” “ Oh , here are two flints and a piece of burnt linen. ” “ And matches ? ” “ I pretended that I had a disorder of the skin , and asked for a little sulphur , which was readily supplied. ” Dantès laid the different things he had been looking at on the table , and stood with his head drooping on his breast , as though overwhelmed by the perseverance and strength of Faria ’ s mind .
As the last stroke died away , I saw a faint light shine through the windows of the private staircase by which we have just descended .
I have promised you the truth ; I will tell it , were it to destroy me. ” “ The idea came into your mind to avenge yourself on this man , did it not ? ” cried Felton .
I am afraid that what was first done was unskillful , if not worse than useless .
On a day of the carnival he had taken a notion to provide an unusual entertainment for that good town , of which he was the life and soul .
You great people always lose something by scandal , notwithstanding your millions .
“ Now let us talk the matter over quietly , ” said the count .
By the light of a lamp he saw a woman , wrapped in a dark mantle , seated upon a stool near a dying fire .
Nevertheless , Aramis was in a good situation , and able to defend himself .
Besides , his intention was formed to make the brave Musketeer all suitable apologies , but without meanness or weakness , fearing that might result from this duel which generally results from an affair of this kind , when a young and vigorous man fights with an adversary who is wounded and weakened—if conquered , he doubles the triumph of his antagonist ; if a conqueror , he is accused of foul play and want of courage .
There were two means of gaining his object—to search him on the spot , or to carry him away , making a buckler of his body , and search him in the trench .
It will take a little longer time and may make a greater disturbance , but you will be outside with swords and will rush in at the proper time. ” “ But if you yourselves should be struck ? ” said Athos .
They had not mistaken the gravity of this event , for the moment after Morrel had entered his private office with Cocles , Julie saw the latter leave it pale , trembling , and his features betraying the utmost consternation .
For the present he had no anxiety .
I am a great captain—that I am !
Milady concealed her face in her hands , as if she could not endure the shame which this name recalled to her .
I will have him come in , if you really wish it. ” Athos moved toward the door ; the duchess held him back .
Morrel passed his hand over his brow ; it seemed to him a dream .
Mine host ’ s face does not please me at all ; it is too gracious. ” “ Nor me either , ” said Athos .
A Florentine adventurer , sire , and that was all ; while the august spouse of your Majesty is Anne of Austria , Queen of France—that is to say , one of the greatest princesses in the world. ” “ She is not the less guilty , Monsieur Duke !
We have been in this place nearly eighty-three hours. ” “ Hem ! ” muttered Porthos , with a kind of pretense of answering .
“ An order to conduct you to a room , and to leave you there to talk to me. ” “ Oh , ” cried Andrea , leaping with joy .
Then , compelled to quit Rome , he went and got himself obscurely killed in a night skirmish , scarcely noticed in history .
Danglars felt his own not to be very well supplied just then , and gradually the man appeared less ugly , the bread less black , and the cheese more fresh , while those dreadful vulgar onions recalled to his mind certain sauces and side-dishes , which his cook prepared in a very superior manner whenever he said , “ Monsieur Deniseau , let me have a nice little fricassee today. ” He got up and knocked on the door ; the bandit raised his head .
“ Who are you ? ” said the pilot in bad French .
This was the Abbé Scarron , always laughing , joking , complimenting—yet suffering—and toying nervously with a small switch .
A week before he had received , in a cradle , a beautiful little boy three months old , with a purse filled with gold and a note containing these simple words : ‘ 11 October , 1633. ’ ” “ It was the date of that strange adventure , ” interrupted Madame de Chevreuse .
Some of the chieftains left the ranks and broke their swords in two .
The executioner then took off his red cloak , spread it upon the ground , laid the body in it , threw in the head , tied all up by the four corners , lifted it on his back , and entered the boat again .
Frequenting the Café de Paris , the Boulevard de Gand , and the Bois de Boulogne , during his brief career of splendor , the false Cavalcanti had formed a host of acquaintances .
Chapter 60 .
“ Amuse yourself well ! ” replied Bonacieux , in a sepulchral tone .
In the centre of this court , in the form of a horseshoe , were the buildings occupied by Mazarin , and at each wing the pavilion ( or smaller building ) , where D ’ Artagnan was confined , and that , level with the orangery , where Athos was to be .
He immediately ran in the direction of Portsmouth , which he saw at nearly half a league before him , standing out in the haze of the morning , with its houses and towers .
D ’ Artagnan and his friends are detained at the siege of La Rochelle. ” “ How do you know that ? ” “ My brother met some emissaries of the cardinal in the uniform of Musketeers .
But we have not done with the thing yet. ” 0087m “ Do you , indeed , think so ? ” inquired the marquise .
They passed through the gate like apparitions , without the guards thinking of detaining them , and reached the open country .
Misfortune refreshes the Memory .
La Mazzolata Gentlemen , ” said the Count of Monte Cristo as he entered , “ I pray you excuse me for suffering my visit to be anticipated ; but I feared to disturb you by presenting myself earlier at your apartments ; besides , you sent me word that you would come to me , and I have held myself at your disposal. ” “ Franz and I have to thank you a thousand times , count , ” returned Albert ; “ you extricated us from a great dilemma , and we were on the point of inventing a very fantastic vehicle when your friendly invitation reached us. ” “ Indeed , ” returned the count , motioning the two young men to sit down .
One seemed , as he raised the wine to his lips , to hear him say , ‘ Come , juice of the grape , and chase away my sorrows. ’ And how he used to break the stem of a glass or the neck of a bottle !
“ What has just happened. ” “ Yes , ” said the Count , “ you are right—it is miraculous. ” “ For Albert is brave , ” resumed Morrel .
I thank you for having recognized me , sir. ” Debray stepped forward , and cordially pressed the hand of his interlocutor .
The coming instant would in all probability decide the rest of his life .
There only then remained Porthos and Bicarat .
I now understand why you are in the service of Cromwell ; you hate the king. ” “ Yes , my lord , I hate him ! ” said the young man .
Encouraged by this discovery , Edmond determined to assist the indefatigable laborer .
His hand , always wonderfully beautiful and strong , was set off by a ruffle of lace , like certain hands by Titian and Vandyck .
Yes , I shall pay , if , as I hope , my vessel arrives safely ; for its arrival will again procure me the credit which the numerous accidents , of which I have been the victim , have deprived me ; but if the _Pharaon_ should be lost , and this last resource be gone—— ” The poor man ’ s eyes filled with tears .
Porthos opened his mouth , thinking it a good opportunity to put in a word in his turn ; D ’ Artagnan checked him by a glance from the corner of his eye .
“ What are these things ? ” he asked .
But no one entered except two or three marines , who brought her trunks and packages , deposited them in a corner , and retired without speaking .
Tell him that our conversation at the inn of the Red Dovecot was overheard by these four men ; tell him that after his departure one of them came up to me and took from me by violence the safe-conduct which he had given me ; tell him they warned Lord de Winter of my journey to England ; that this time they nearly foiled my mission as they foiled the affair of the studs ; tell him that among these four men two only are to be feared—D ’ Artagnan and Athos ; tell him that the third , Aramis , is the lover of Madame de Chevreuse—he may be left alone , we know his secret , and it may be useful ; as to the fourth , Porthos , he is a fool , a simpleton , a blustering booby , not worth troubling himself about. ” “ But these four men must be now at the siege of La Rochelle ? ” “ I thought so , too ; but a letter which Madame Bonacieux has received from Madame the Constable , and which she has had the imprudence to show me , leads me to believe that these four men , on the contrary , are on the road hither to take her away. ” “ The devil !
“ If you prefer any other place , ” said Athos , in his persuasive voice , “ choose for yourselves. ” “ This place , if Monsieur d ’ Herblay can procure the key , is the best that we can have , ” was the answer .
Aramis returned , laughing , one hat on his head and the other in his hand ; and he and his companion resumed their walk toward the convent .
Before this room , to which you could ascend by the grand , and go out by the back staircase , the servants passed with curiosity , and Bertuccio with terror .
I will take all the blame on myself if you find I have led you into an error. ” “ Well , then , if it be so , are you ready , Albert ? ” “ Perfectly. ” “ Let us go and return our best thanks for his courtesy. ” “ Yes , let us do so. ” The landlord preceded the friends across the landing , which was all that separated them from the apartments of the count , rang at the bell , and , upon the door being opened by a servant , said : “ _I signori Francesi_. ” The domestic bowed respectfully , and invited them to enter .
Nowadays the military profession is in abeyance and the magisterial robe is the badge of honor .
“ Ah , M. Andrea , ” said the latter , with his half-jesting tone ; “ how do you do ? ” “ Charmingly , as you see .
You can understand , honored and dear guardian , how precious and indispensable to me is the remembrance of the years that I have passed with you .
Dantès uttered blasphemies that made his jailer recoil with horror , dashed himself furiously against the walls of his prison , wreaked his anger upon everything , and chiefly upon himself , so that the least thing , —a grain of sand , a straw , or a breath of air that annoyed him , led to paroxysms of fury .
“ What must be done then ? ” asked the general.— “ I have my carriage here , ” said the president .
“ Ah , my dear friend , ” said Madame Danglars , with the same simplicity we before noticed , “ it is a fact .
“ Do you hear , baron ?
During the evident preoccupation of Madame de Villefort , Monte Cristo scrutinized the features and appearance of the boy she kept folded in her arms , lavishing on him the most tender endearments .
Felton remained behind ; he held a book in his hand .
She was free now to give way to her transports without being observed .
Chapter LXIX .
Now , sir , pray do not be offended at the question I am about to put to you , as it comes in the way of my duty as your patron .
D ’ Artagnan would have remonstrated at this ; but Athos put his hand upon his shoulder , with a smile , and D ’ Artagnan understood that it was all very well for such a little Gascon gentleman as himself to drive a bargain , but not for a man who had the bearing of a prince .
Gladly availing himself of this opportunity , the coachman leaped from his box ; but Ali had promptly seized the nostrils of the second horse , and held them in his iron grasp , till the beast , snorting with pain , sunk beside his companion .
“ Yes , ” said Aramis , “ impart it to us , my dear friend , unless the honor of any lady be hazarded by this confidence ; in that case you would do better to keep it to yourself. ” “ Be satisfied , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ the honor of no one will have cause to complain of what I have to tell. ” He then related to his friends , word for word , all that had passed between him and his host , and how the man who had abducted the wife of his worthy landlord was the same with whom he had had the difference at the hostelry of the Jolly Miller .
As he passed by M. Noirtier ’ s room , he perceived two figures through the half-open door ; but he experienced no curiosity to know who was visiting his father ; anxiety carried him on further .
The woman , especially , was hideous ; her usual feverish tremulousness was intensified , her countenance had become livid , and her eyes resembled burning coals .
“ That is my name , ” said Athos , quietly .
He now saw where the breastplate was weak , and prepared the blow .
this famous invention of yours ? ” “ Must I tell you , ” replied the duke , “ on what I most reckon and what I determine to try first ? ” “ Yes , that ’ s the thing , my lord ! ” cried his custodian , gaily .
“ By-the-bye , ” he said , “ I think that we are decidedly wrong to depart thus , without leaving a line for Porthos and D ’ Artagnan. ” “ The thing is done , dear friend , ” said Athos ; “ I foresaw that and have embraced them both from you and myself. ” “ You are a wonderful man , my dear count , ” said Aramis ; “ you think of everything. ” “ Well , have you made up your mind to this journey ? ” “ Quite ; and now that I reflect about it , I am glad to leave Paris at this moment. ” “ And so am I , ” replied Athos ; “ my only regret is not having seen D ’ Artagnan ; but the rascal is so cunning , he might have guessed our project. ” When supper was over Blaisois entered .
Chapter XXXIV .
“ My lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ your eminence sees that we wish to act with all formality and due respect ; but I must warn you that we have no time to lose ; open the door then , my lord , and be so good as to remember , once for all , that on the slightest attempt to escape or the faintest cry for help , our position being very critical indeed , you must not be angry with us if we go to extremities. ” “ Be assured , ” answered Mazarin , “ that I shall attempt nothing ; I give you my word of honor. ” D ’ Artagnan made a sign to Porthos to redouble his watchfulness ; then turning to Mazarin : “ Now , my lord , let us enter , if you please. ” Chapter LXXXVI .
Coquenard did not seem to observe it .
He was a man , as must have been already perceived , who made but little noise , and yet was much sought after .
God knows , I would prefer sacrificing the whole , so that it would obtain me a happy and affectionate home. ” “ Poor Valentine ! ” “ I seem to myself as though living a life of bondage , yet at the same time am so conscious of my own weakness that I fear to break the restraint in which I am held , lest I fall utterly helpless .
“ Well , the man whom I offer you is a general syndic. ” “ And what do you know of him ? ” “ Nothing , my lord , except that he is tormented with remorse. ” “ What makes you think so ? ” “ On the twenty-eighth of every month he makes me say a mass for the repose of the soul of one who died a violent death ; yesterday I said this mass again. ” “ And his name ? ” “ Maillard ; but I do not think it is his right one. ” “ And think you that we should find him at this hour at his post ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ Let us go and see your beggar , sir , and if he is such as you describe him , you are right—it will be you who have discovered the true treasure. ” Gondy dressed himself as an officer , put on a felt cap with a red feather , hung on a long sword , buckled spurs to his boots , wrapped himself in an ample cloak and followed the curate .
Madame Morrel sent her daughter to bed , and half an hour after Julie had retired , she rose , took off her shoes , and went stealthily along the passage , to see through the keyhole what her husband was doing .
“ De Wardes ; I know it , ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
And with whom ? ” “ Lord , who can say , monsieur ?
We have our clothes , some more splendid than others , —this is our credit ; but when a man dies he has only his skin ; in the same way , on retiring from business , you have nothing but your real principal of about five or six millions , at the most ; for third-rate fortunes are never more than a fourth of what they appear to be , like the locomotive on a railway , the size of which is magnified by the smoke and steam surrounding it .
He therefore approached the bed , and while his companion was dipping the fingers with which he had touched the lips of the corpse in chloride of lime , he uncovered the calm and pale face , which looked like that of a sleeping angel .
At length the poor old fellow reached the end of all he had ; he owed three quarters ’ rent , and they threatened to turn him out ; he begged for another week , which was granted to him .
Fortunately , I don ’ t know where he is. ” “ How ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan ; “ you don ’ t know where Aramis is ? ” “ Formerly , ” replied Bazin , “ Aramis was his name of perdition .
“ Well , I shall look upon it as an expiation. ” “ Ah ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ I know what you mean. ” “ And I , too , ” added Aramis ; “ but you must not think of that , Athos ; what is past , is past. ” “ I don ’ t understand , ” said Porthos .
as to that , no , ” replied Athos , laughing .
“ It was very polite of you. ” “ Come , ” said Andrea , “ what do you want ? ” “ You do not speak affectionately to me , Benedetto , my old friend , that is not right—take care , or I may become troublesome. ” This menace smothered the young man ’ s passion .
The Foundation ’ s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West , Salt Lake City , UT 84116 , ( 801 ) 596-1887 .
“ Let M. de Rochefort enter , ” said Mazarin , eagerly , on hearing their names pronounced ; “ and beg M. d ’ Artagnan to wait ; I shall have further need of him. ” These words gave great joy to D ’ Artagnan .
to be sure , yes .
While retracing the past , I forget the present ; and traversing at will the path of history I cease to remember that I am myself a prisoner. ” “ But the ink , ” said Dantès ; “ of what did you make your ink ? ” “ There was formerly a fireplace in my dungeon , ” replied Faria , “ but it was closed up long ere I became an occupant of this prison .
“ Let us alight ; Raoul , ” said Athos .
Do you know Monsieur de Tréville , their captain ? ” “ Oh , yes , him !
Hereafter , perhaps , I shall have the right of _giving_ myself ; at present I shall appear to sell myself. ” “ That is to say , you refuse to serve me , monsieur , ” said the cardinal , with a tone of vexation , through which , however , might be seen a sort of esteem ; “ remain free , then , and guard your hatreds and your sympathies. ” “ Monseigneur— ” “ Well , well , ” said the cardinal , “ I don ’ t wish you any ill ; but you must be aware that it is quite trouble enough to defend and recompense our friends .
It seemed , however , even in the very face of open day , that at least a year had elapsed since all these things had passed , so deep was the impression made in his mind by the dream , and so strong a hold had it taken of his imagination .
In a few minutes he had extracted three boards .
Ali , is the supper ready ? ” At this moment the tapestry moved aside , and a Nubian , black as ebony , and dressed in a plain white tunic , made a sign to his master that all was prepared in the dining-room .
It was a large cabinet , close and stifling , with the walls furnished with arms offensive and defensive , and in which there was already a fire , although it was scarcely the end of the month of September .
Our position is truly a strange one , ” continued Athos , laughing .
“ My dear Bazin , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I am delighted to see with what wonderful composure you can tell a lie even in church ! ” “ Sir , ” replied Bazin , “ I have been taught by the good Jesuit fathers that it is permitted to tell a falsehood when it is told in a good cause. ” “ So far well , ” said Aramis ; “ we are dying of hunger .
the daughter of Ali Pasha ? ” “ Of Ali Pasha and the beautiful Vasiliki. ” “ And your slave ? ” “ _Ma foi_ , yes. ” “ But how did she become so ? ” “ Why , simply from the circumstance of my having bought her one day , as I was passing through the market at Constantinople. ” “ Wonderful !
But now I will begin with more perseverance and fury than ever , since fear urges me , not my conscience. ” “ But , ” replied Madame Danglars , “ the Count of Monte Cristo can know nothing , or he would not seek our society as he does. ” “ Oh , the wickedness of man is very great , ” said Villefort , “ since it surpasses the goodness of God .
He was just taking one up and looking for the point to aim at on a little iron plate which served him as a target , when his study door opened , and Baptistin entered .
I really did not observe whom I had the honor to receive under my poor roof .
“ Let us alight here , ” said Athos .
In the first place you have plenty of money , haven ’ t you ?
They rose about eight o ’ clock in the winter , about six in summer , and went to take the countersign and see how things went on at M. de Tréville ’ s .
The fragments of the jug broke , and after an hour of useless toil , Dantès paused with anguish on his brow .
I will take the five scraps of paper that I now hold as bonds , with your signature alone , and here is a receipt in full for the six millions between us .
Athos alone remained seated , calm and thoughtful .
“ Yes , ‘ sdeath !
“ Oh , my God ! ” cried she , “ my God !
“ Doubtless ; it is said M. Danglars conceals at least half of his fortune. ” “ And he acknowledges fifteen or twenty millions , ” said Andrea with a look sparkling with joy .
Go and bring me back the cardinal as soon as possible. ” “ Madame , ” faltered D ’ Artagnan , “ ’ tis twenty years ago—I have a good memory—since I had the honor behind a piece of tapestry in the Hotel de Ville , of kissing one of those lovely hands. ” “ There is the other , ” replied the queen ; “ and that the left hand should not be less liberal than the right , ” she drew from her finger a diamond similar to the one formerly given to him , “ take and keep this ring in remembrance of me .
It is indeed a sum which might be regretted even by a philosopher .
What has happened to you today , to raise all these melancholy ideas ? ” “ This wound , my dear D ’ Artagnan , has been a warning to me from heaven. ” “ This wound ?
“ ‘ I am Luigi Vampa , shepherd of the San-Felice farm. ’ “ ‘ What do you want ? ’ “ ‘ I would speak with your companions who are in the glade at Rocca Bianca. ’ “ ‘ Follow me , then , ’ said the sentinel ; ‘ or , as you know your way , go first. ’ “ Vampa smiled disdainfully at this precaution on the part of the bandit , went before Teresa , and continued to advance with the same firm and easy step as before .
The life of a man was to him of far less value than a numeral , especially when , by taking it away , he could increase the sum total of his own desires .
But I repeat to you , I am charged with reclaiming it ; and if you do not give it up— ” “ Well ? ” “ He has , then , charged me to take it from you. ” “ How !
“ Yes—yes , ” said Caderousse ; “ but you were right to return as soon as possible , my boy. ” “ And why ? ” “ Because Mercédès is a very fine girl , and fine girls never lack followers ; she particularly has them by dozens. ” “ Really ? ” answered Edmond , with a smile which had in it traces of slight uneasiness .
Thanks to this double gift and the spotless name that accompanied it , M. de Tréville was admitted into the household of the young prince where he made such good use of his sword , and was so faithful to his motto , that Louis XIII. , one of the good blades of his kingdom , was accustomed to say that if he had a friend who was about to fight , he would advise him to choose as a second , himself first , and Tréville next—or even , perhaps , before himself .
I confess it , but pardon to every sin !
Fernand , more happy , but not more at his ease—for I saw at this time he was in constant dread of Edmond ’ s return—Fernand was very anxious to get his wife away , and to depart himself .
Toward four o ’ clock in the morning the doctor arrived ; but since the time Milady stabbed herself , however short , the wound had closed .
The old man looked at her with that stern and forbidding expression with which he was accustomed to receive her .
You could not help thinking of it , and saying to yourself , ‘ you , who pursue crime so vindictively , answer now , why are there unpunished crimes in your dwelling ? ’ ” The baroness became pale .
M. Morrel and Mercédès came to see him , but his door was closed ; and , although I was certain he was at home , he would not make any answer .
‘ A boat ! —two ! —three ! ’ murmured my , father ; — ‘ four ! ’ He then arose , seizing his arms and priming his pistols .
I turned around , I looked at the trees , I tried to recall the details which had struck me at the time .
At this moment the clock struck eleven .
I can only tell you that Madame de Villefort sent to request my presence , as she had a communication to make on which a part of my fortune depended .
What made you choose a house at the gates of Paris , M. Bertuccio ? ” “ I , ” cried the steward with a strange expression .
At this moment the whole soul of the old man seemed centred in his eyes which became bloodshot ; the veins of the throat swelled ; his cheeks and temples became purple , as though he was struck with epilepsy ; nothing was wanting to complete this but the utterance of a cry .
The soldier returned , and Felton gave him back his weapon .
“ My officer , ” said Athos , “ has forgotten to give a piece of very important information to the lady , and has sent me back to repair his forgetfulness. ” “ Go up , ” said the host ; “ she is still in her chamber. ” Athos availed himself of the permission , ascended the stairs with his lightest step , gained the landing , and through the open door perceived Milady putting on her hat .
LIMITED WARRANTY , DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “ Right of Replacement or Refund ” described in paragraph 1.F.3 , the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation , the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark , and any other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement , disclaim all liability to you for damages , costs and expenses , including legal fees .
She had forced us to accept a little souvenir , a magnificent Spanish _genet_ and an Andalusian mule , which were beautiful to look upon .
There is no knight-errant to come and seek a quarrel with me on account of the fair lady I detain a prisoner ; but I have judges quite ready who will quickly dispose of a woman so shameless as to glide , a bigamist , into the bed of Lord de Winter , my brother .
Besides , we are sent here by Cardinal Mazarin , and at this moment represent both the king and the cardinal , and are , therefore , as ambassadors , able to act with impunity , a thing that General Oliver Cromwell , who is assuredly as great a politician as he is a general , is quite the man to understand .
The cardinalists were three ; the Musketeers , lackeys included , were seven .
They could hear the two soldiers shivering with fear , as they lay bound in the chamber .
“ My dear M. Cavalcanti , ” said Andrea , taking the major by the arm in a confidential manner , “ how much are you paid for being my father ? ” The major was about to speak , when Andrea continued , in a low voice : “ Nonsense , I am going to set you an example of confidence , they give me 50,000 francs a year to be your son ; consequently , you can understand that it is not at all likely I shall ever deny my parent. ” The major looked anxiously around him .
The accused replied that his name was Jacques Michel Bonacieux , that he was fifty-one years old , a retired mercer , and lived Rue des Fossoyeurs , No .
Night came , and at ten o ’ clock they anchored .
D ’ Avrigny , unable to bear the sight of this touching emotion , turned away ; and Villefort , without seeking any further explanation , and attracted towards him by the irresistible magnetism which draws us towards those who have loved the people for whom we mourn , extended his hand towards the young man .
Give it me , that I may see it is not false. ” “ There it is. ” The child put the piece of money into his pocket .
He rose to return the salutation .
“ One only needs to be sharp , that ’ s all .
He ’ s a Gascon .
Are you making a sketch after Poussin ? ” “ Oh , no , ” was the tranquil response ; “ I am too fond of art to attempt anything of that sort .
Are you one of us , Monsieur de Rochefort ? ” “ I am very desirous of being so , my lord , but I am totally in the dark about everything .
“ What is the use of following the alleys ?
a hundred pistoles ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself ; “ he calls that being as poor as Job !
INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation , the trademark owner , any agent or employee of the Foundation , anyone providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in accordance with this agreement , and any volunteers associated with the production , promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works , harmless from all liability , costs and expenses , including legal fees , that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur : ( a ) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg™ work , ( b ) alteration , modification , or additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work , and ( c ) any Defect you cause .
But I am not surprised ; the spring has been warm this year , and strawberries require heat , sir .
The less pretension there is in your attire , the better will be the effect , as you are a rich man .
Men are so made ; and we are not always twenty years old .
But at the same instant the crowd of guests rushed in alarm into the principal salon as if some frightful monster had entered the apartments , _quærens quem devoret_ .
I will send word to the governor. ” “ Very well , ” returned Dantès , dropping the stool and sitting on it as if he were in reality mad .
One evening I was in a garden ; a clump of trees concealed me ; no one suspected I was there .
“ Ah , my friend ! ” cried the duke , “ you are so good ; if I could but do as you do , and eat pates and drink Burgundy at the house of Father Marteau ’ s successor. ” “ ’ Tis true , my lord , ” answered La Ramee , “ that his pates are famous and his wine magnificent. ” “ In any case , ” said the duke , “ his cellar and kitchen might easily excel those of Monsieur de Chavigny. ” “ Well , my lord , ” said La Ramee , falling into the trap , “ what is there to prevent your trying them ?
“ Zounds !
“ Because that young man , so handsome , so elegant , so polished—— ” “ Is a child I have adopted and who does not even know who was his father. ” “ Very well ; you are always the same , Athos , great and generous .
And when he had discharged his two pistols , what a terrible noise he made with his sword !
Take pity on me , then , and go !
But I will answer for these two words being delivered to their address. ” “ Oh , my God !
“ Ah , yes , ” said Porthos , “ there is nine o ’ clock .
They who love believe easily in love .
“ What ! ” demanded D ’ Artagnan .
With my usual fatuity I doubted it ; now I am convinced .
Morrel rose tremblingly , supporting himself by the arm of the chair .
At once Dantès resolved to follow the brave example of his energetic companion , and to remember that what has once been done may be done again .
no !
For the pleasure of a meeting with you I would go to the end of the world. ” “ Very well , to-morrow , sir. ” “ I shall rely on it .
Could you not procure us a few of those nice little rabbits , and some of those delicious partridges , of which you used to make fricassees at the hotel—— ?
“ My faith , it appears so ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Sir , ” he said , after a pause , “ a thousand excuses for the precaution taken in your introduction hither ; but as , during the greater portion of the year , this island is deserted , if the secret of this abode were discovered , I should doubtless , find on my return my temporary retirement in a state of great disorder , which would be exceedingly annoying , not for the loss it occasioned me , but because I should not have the certainty I now possess of separating myself from all the rest of mankind at pleasure .
Whoever hesitates for a second perhaps allows the bait to escape which during that exact second fortune held out to him .
Suddenly Mousqueton uttered a cry of delight , taking from beneath one of the benches a bottle of wine ; and on looking more closely in the same place he discovered a dozen similar bottles , bread , and a monster junk of salted beef .
“ No , ” he cried , “ they have not wounded , but perhaps they have robbed me ! ” and he thrust his hands into his pockets .
D ’ Artagnan passed through the iron gate and arrived in front of the chateau .
Bonacieux was .
Well , picture to yourself a future more gloomy still—certainly frightful , perhaps sanguinary ! ” The baroness knew how calm Villefort naturally was , and his present excitement frightened her so much that she opened her mouth to scream , but the sound died in her throat .
On reaching the Pont Neuf the coadjutor found it strictly guarded and a man approached him .
The four young men , standing and motionless , followed him with their eyes without speaking a single word until he had disappeared .
The weapon , as we have already stated , was plunged into the body to the hilt , and as the surgeon , taking it by the end , drew it forth , the wounded man opened his eyes and fixed them on him in a manner truly frightful .
“ You suppose that I would ever accept the price of your life ?
“ You were going to visit Monsieur de la Fere ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
A violent blow from the butt end of the musket burst open the lock , two more forced out the bolts , and the broken door fell in .
“ Does your majesty remember , when playing in the park of Fontainebleau , or in the palace courts at Versailles , ever to have seen the sky grow suddenly dark and heard the sound of thunder ? ” “ Yes , certainly. ” “ Well , then , this noise of thunder , however much your majesty may have wished to continue playing , has said , ‘ go in , sire .
I confined myself then to begging him to give up his chamber , which is the handsomest in the hôtel , and to be satisfied with a pretty little room on the third floor ; but to this Monsieur Porthos replied that as he every moment expected his mistress , who was one of the greatest ladies in the court , I might easily comprehend that the chamber he did me the honor to occupy in my house was itself very mean for the visit of such a personage .
“ Stay , ” said Monte Cristo , as though he had not observed her confusion , “ I have heard of a lucky hit that was made yesterday on the Neapolitan bonds. ” “ I have none—nor have I ever possessed any ; but really we have talked long enough of money , count , we are like two stockbrokers ; have you heard how fate is persecuting the poor Villeforts ? ” “ What has happened ? ” said the count , simulating total ignorance .
How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice that Eat His Peaches Not on the same night as he had stated , but the next morning , the Count of Monte Cristo went out by the Barrière d ’ Enfer , taking the road to Orléans .
friends ! ” “ Well , then , tell me at once what you want , that I may see if any arrangement be possible .
He was about to see in reality a certain coffer of which he had twenty times beheld the image in his dreams—a coffer long and deep , locked , bolted , fastened in the wall ; a coffer of which he had so often heard , and which the hands—a little wrinkled , it is true , but still not without elegance—of the procurator ’ s wife were about to open to his admiring looks .
“ I gave it away in a night of love , as it has been given to you. ” D ’ Artagnan became pensive in his turn ; it appeared as if there were abysses in Milady ’ s soul whose depths were dark and unknown .
Franz and Albert were like men who , to drive away a violent sorrow , have recourse to wine , and who , as they drink and become intoxicated , feel a thick veil drawn between the past and the present .
After every action requiring exertion , it is conscience that saves us , for it supplies us with a thousand good excuses , of which we alone are judges ; and these reasons , howsoever excellent in producing sleep , would avail us but very little before a tribunal , when we were tried for our lives .
He was quite alone ; on one side was the vast wilderness of the Saint-Lazare , on the other , Paris enshrouded in darkness .
By your reckoning I must be forty-three at least .
“ If your eminence is disguised it will be almost easy. ” “ Ah ! ” said Mazarin , breathing more freely .
Saint Denis .
Your companions are no doubt Messieurs Porthos and Aramis. ” “ Yes , your Eminence , ” said Athos , while the two Musketeers who had remained behind advanced hat in hand .
“ But what ’ s that to us ?
“ Oh , I am a Christian , ” cried Dantès , guessing instinctively that this man meant to abandon him .
Even Athos looked at him with as much stupefaction as the others , for he knew not how he could in any way find himself mixed up with the horrible drama then unfolded .
Then he looked around him , and really recognized his dungeon .
“ You desire to fathom this horrible secret ? ” said De Winter ; “ well , then , so be it .
The footmen were hastening through the rooms with waiters loaded with ices .
brava ! ” cried Morcerf , parodying the banker , as the selection came to an end .
“ Go on , ” said the abbé ; “ it seems as if I were listening to the story of a dream .
He extended his hand .
Chapter XXI .
“ You can not guess , ” said he , “ what there is in that small vase , can you ? ” “ No , I really can not . ” “ Well , then , that green preserve is nothing less than the ambrosia which Hebe served at the table of Jupiter. ” “ But , ” replied Franz , “ this ambrosia , no doubt , in passing through mortal hands has lost its heavenly appellation and assumed a human name ; in vulgar phrase , what may you term this composition , for which , to tell the truth , I do not feel any particular desire ? ” “ Ah , thus it is that our material origin is revealed , ” cried Sinbad ; “ we frequently pass so near to happiness without seeing , without regarding it , or if we do see and regard it , yet without recognizing it .
I must wait .
“ But I am sure of one thing—that those who laugh at him in his presence will never laugh a second time. ” “ Here goes the barony. ” said the queen ; she signed a patent .
“ How , my fault ? ” “ Yes , I offered you escape. ” “ By pulling out a bar and pushing down a door ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ Porthos , men like us can ’ t go out from here purely and simply. ” “ Faith ! ” said Porthos , “ as for me , I could go out with that purity and that simplicity which it seems to me you despise too much. ” D ’ Artagnan shrugged his shoulders .
Franz was the “ excellency , ” the vehicle was the “ carriage , ” and the Hôtel de Londres was the “ palace. ” The genius for laudation characteristic of the race was in that phrase .
D ’ Artagnan departed , scarcely knowing what to think , but as he was a youth who did not easily lose his head , while continuing to pay his court to Milady , he had framed a little plan in his mind .
“ Is this carriage for us ? ” asked Milady .
At the top of the stairs he found Planchet in a great fright .
The Smugglers Chapter 23 .
There is none , ” said Athos .
Come , then , as early as you like—at seven o ’ clock ; but beware , if you and your Musketeers are guilty. ” “ If my Musketeers are guilty , sire , the guilty shall be placed in your Majesty ’ s hands , who will dispose of them at your good pleasure .
Do you not perceive that we are opposite the Hôtel d ’ Arguillon , which is full of the cardinal ’ s creatures ?
“ Now , if you will come on board , M. Morrel , ” said Dantès , observing the owner ’ s impatience , “ here is your supercargo , M. Danglars , coming out of his cabin , who will furnish you with every particular .
“ I arrived three hours after her at Boulogne .
“ But , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ how did you escape ? ” “ I took advantage of a moment when they left me alone ; and as I had known since morning the reason of my abduction , with the help of the sheets I let myself down from the window .
“ Madame , ” said he , “ I bear to your majesty a letter from my friend the Count de Guiche , who told me he had the honor of being your servant ; this letter contains important news and the expression of his respect. ” At the name of the Count de Guiche a blush spread over the cheeks of the young princess and the queen glanced at her with some degree of severity .
“ See , ” said Beauchamp , pointing out Morrel to Debray .
Unfortunately , there are great words , as there are great men ; I have measured them .
Mazarin attempted to open it by a key which he took from his pocket , but with such shaking fingers that he could not find the keyhole .
If you mean to buy any horses , get them of Devedeux , and if you purchase a phaeton , go to Baptiste for it. ” “ At what hour shall we come ? ” asked the young man .
Porthos rubbed his hands in feverish impatience .
He had given his word not to watch Mme .
“ Oh ! ” he exclaimed , “ I begin to be more at my ease , however , whilst you settle yourselves , I shall make the round of the boat. ” “ As for me , ” said Porthos , “ I will see to the supper. ” “ A very good idea , Porthos , ” said the Gascon .
For himself , he had no doubt she was a victim of the cardinal ’ s vengeance ; and , as was well known , the vengeance of his Eminence was terrible .
“ You will speak in Italian , ” said he .
The duke received them and they informed him that they were resolved not to pay this tax , even if they were obliged to defend themselves against its collectors by force of arms .
Then the three statues advanced towards him with looks of love , and approached the couch on which he was reposing , their feet hidden in their long white tunics , their throats bare , hair flowing like waves , and assuming attitudes which the gods could not resist , but which saints withstood , and looks inflexible and ardent like those with which the serpent charms the bird ; and then he gave way before looks that held him in a torturing grasp and delighted his senses as with a voluptuous kiss .
Here we are without occupation , it seems to me. ” “ You forget , my friend , that we have work cut out for us in the direction of Charenton ; I hope to see Monsieur de Chatillon , whom I ’ ve hated for a long time , there. ” “ Why have you hated him ? ” “ Because he is the brother of Coligny. ” “ Ah , true !
A vessel was setting sail for Algiers , on board of which the bustle usually attending departure prevailed .
“ There are four men come to arrest me .
“ Here , ” said he , “ I want to show you the kind of passport which I have drawn up , and which will serve you henceforward as the rule of order in the life I consent to leave you. ” Then turning his eyes from Milady to the paper , he read : “ ‘ Order to conduct— ’ The name is blank , ” interrupted Lord de Winter .
A thunder of applause saluted its appearance ; half the camp was at the barrier .
His was one of those rare organizations , endowed with an obedient intelligence like that of the dog ; with a blind valor , a quick eye , and a prompt hand ; to whom sight appeared only to be given to see if the king were dissatisfied with anyone , and the hand to strike this displeasing personage , whether a Besme , a Maurevers , a Poltiot de Méré , or a Vitry .
It is all one to us—to us who do not command to-morrow ’ s expedition. ” Chatillon and Flamarens looked at each other .
“ Barrois , ” cried Valentine , “ Barrois ! ” “ I am coming , mademoiselle , ” replied he .
“ What wants your excellency of me ? ” inquired the man , retreating a step or two , as if to keep on his guard .
“ Police affairs ! ” cried the king , taking up Tréville ’ s words , “ police affairs !
“ I acknowledge it affected me , and , indeed , all the committee also , ” said Beauchamp .
“ And nothing more ?
“ But , after all , ” said he , lowering the point of his spit , “ where is this letter ? ” “ Yes , where is this letter ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Bonacieux , opening a cupboard and taking from it the very bag which a half hour before her husband had caressed so affectionately , “ take this bag. ” “ The cardinal ’ s ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan , breaking into a loud laugh , he having heard , as may be remembered , thanks to the broken boards , every syllable of the conversation between the mercer and his wife .
“ Not one of them will do as he says , ” he murmured , with his little monkey smile ; “ but they may do as they please , the brave gentlemen !
The queen had at first positively refused ; but at length became afraid that the duke , if exasperated , would commit some folly .
“ Her son ? ” said he .
This woman exercised over him an unaccountable power ; he hated and adored her at the same time .
I have killed two , which has made people hold their tongues , but has not made me their friend .
Scarron turned his chair toward the door , Raoul blushed , Athos made a sign to Aramis , who went and hid himself in the enclosure of a window .
Oliver Cromwell .
20245m “ Why should he doubt it ? ” said Beauchamp to Château-Renaud .
I tried to pray , but my tongue was frozen .
Sire , Buckingham has been in Paris five days , and only left this morning. ” Chapter XVI .
“ Oh , mon Dieu ! ” he said , raising his fine eyes to D ’ Artagnan , moist with tears , “ the count has left Paris without seeing me ? ” “ He left four days ago , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
sir , ” said Mousqueton , “ I much fear that what you ask for are very rare things in this detestable and barren country , and I think we should do better to go and seek hospitality from the owner of a little house we see on the fringe of the forest. ” “ How !
remember that in a quarter of an hour you will be safe ; and think that what you are about to do is for _his_ sake. ” “ Yes , yes , everything for him .
“ To know what ? ” “ The name of the owner of the winning horse ? ” “ Excessively ; only imagine—but do tell me , viscount , whether you really are acquainted with it or no ? ” “ I beg your pardon , madame , but you were about to relate some story , were you not ?
It was necessary to be as good a horseman as he was to risk such a scheme , for no sooner had the animal felt the burning tinder than he uttered a cry of pain and reared and jumped as if he had been mad .
Adieu , my charmer ; I will wait to pay you my next visit till you are in a better humor. ’ “ At these words he blew a whistle ; the globe of fire which lighted the room reascended and disappeared .
Noirtier closed his right eye .
The handle of this saucepan was of iron ; Dantès would have given ten years of his life in exchange for it .
I should be too happy to be of any service to her .
How did you obtain these details ? ” “ Sire , they are the results of an examination which I have made of a man of Marseilles , whom I have watched for some time , and arrested on the day of my departure .
Hello , here is my watch !
Do you know what that warning was ? ” “ No , I only suspect he has warned the queen against some fresh machinations of the cardinal. ” “ Yes , that ’ s it , no doubt ! ” said Milady , returning the letter to Mme .
“ Stay , sir , ” said Anne to him .
I don ’ t speak of my brother .
The young man was overwhelmed as he read .
I live , because it is not ordained for me to die .
The man fell like an ox beneath the poleaxe .
Athos wished to restrain him , but it was too late .
“ Some wine ! ” cried the stupefied host , “ some wine ?
Everything in this charming retreat , from the warble of the birds to the smile of the mistress , breathed tranquillity and repose .
A double line of carbineers , placed on each side of the door of the church , reached to the scaffold , and formed a circle around it , leaving a path about ten feet wide , and around the guillotine a space of nearly a hundred feet .
In the court which we have attempted to describe , and from which a damp vapor was rising , a young man with his hands in his pockets , who had excited much curiosity among the inhabitants of the “ Den , ” might be seen walking .
But , my Lord , think of what you ’ re about to do , and beware of going too far ! ” “ What do you say ?
Aramis bit his lips till the blood came .
The fact was , in leaving Notre Dame the coadjutor had learned the event of the day .
Is that all ? ” “ Yes , go ; but urge the king strongly not to stand on false generosity .
Beauchamp The daring attempt to rob the count was the topic of conversation throughout Paris for the next fortnight .
“ Patience ! ” said Athos ; “ I had a plan .
On arriving at the Hotel de la Chevrette they found the baron ’ s equipage all ready and Mousqueton on his saddle .
He arrived in time .
Still , it must have been many years in use , for it was thickly covered with a coating of soot ; this soot I dissolved in a portion of the wine brought to me every Sunday , and I assure you a better ink can not be desired .
The two doctors , therefore , entered the room alone .
“ And you think you can catch him ? ” “ Yes , if we are better mounted than he. ” “ Go then , take what guards you find here , and pursue him. ” “ You command us , my lord , to do so ? ” “ And I sign my orders , ” said Mazarin , taking a piece of paper and writing some lines ; “ Monsieur du Vallon , your barony is on the back of the Duc de Beaufort ’ s horse ; you have nothing to do but to overtake it .
“ Go , ” said he , in a subdued voice , “ and find Rochefort .
“ Please , sir , ” said the boy , “ do you think I can gain any more half-pistoles in any way ? ” “ Perhaps , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
The sentinel opened the door ; it was a new face .
Albert was impatient to see how he looked in his new dress—a jacket and breeches of blue velvet , silk stockings with clocks , shoes with buckles , and a silk waistcoat .
Bonacieux .
“ Good-bye , Albert , ” said Beauchamp suddenly , carelessly extending his hand to the young man .
“ By-the-bye , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ should this man attempt to fly or to call out , pass your sword through his body. ” The musketeer signified by a nod that these commands should be obeyed to the letter , and D ’ Artagnan went out , followed by Bernouin .
You don ’ t like playing , then ? ” “ On the contrary , I do. ” “ Lansquenet , for instance ? ” “ Devoted to it .
They will therein find portraits penciled by the hand of a master ; and although these squibs may be , for the most part , traced upon the doors of barracks and the walls of cabarets , they will not find the likenesses of Louis XIII. , Anne of Austria , Richelieu , Mazarin , and the courtiers of the period , less faithful than in the history of M. Anquetil .
“ Yes , keep it—keep it. ” Monte Cristo replaced the notes in his pocket with that indescribable expression which seemed to say , “ Come , reflect ; if you repent there is still time. ” “ No , ” said Danglars , “ no , decidedly no ; keep my signatures .
In this room , at about ten o ’ clock in the morning , the banker himself had been walking to and fro for some minutes thoughtfully and in evident uneasiness , watching both doors , and listening to every sound .
Two ladies , sleeping in one bed , were awakened by the noise , and fixing their eyes upon the spot whence the sound proceeded , they saw a man .
“ If you wish it. ” “ I am at your service , my lord. ” “ I protest , my dear La Ramee , ” said the duke , “ that you are a charming fellow and that I would stay forever at Vincennes to have the pleasure of your society. ” “ My lord , ” replied La Ramee , “ I think if it depended on the cardinal your wishes would be fulfilled. ” “ What do you mean ?
“ Take care of your horses ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan to him .
Lord de Winter passed before the door without stopping , and they heard the noise of his footsteps soon die away .
Porthos knocked at the door of a house to the right , whilst D ’ Artagnan knocked at the door of a house to the left .
He obeyed , not without some uneasiness , which , momentarily increasing , caused his mind , instead of being as unoccupied as it was when he began his journey , to fill with ideas which were very likely to keep a traveller awake , more especially one in such a situation as Danglars .
All attempts to disperse the groups collected in the streets , or silence their exclamations , were in vain .
Do not despair !
Milady had sunk into a chair , with her hands extended , as if to conjure this terrible apparition .
“ ‘ I will give you 45,000 , ’ said he , ‘ but not a sou more ; besides , as that is the exact value of the stone , I brought just that sum with me. ’ “ ‘ Oh , that ’ s no matter , ’ replied Caderousse , ‘ I will go back with you to fetch the other 5,000 francs. ’ “ ‘ No , ’ returned the jeweller , giving back the diamond and the ring to Caderousse , ‘ no , it is worth no more , and I am sorry I offered so much , for the stone has a flaw in it , which I had not seen .
“ I know , father , you are the most honorable man I have ever known. ” “ Good , my son .
One of them went away , and Dantès heard his shoes striking on the pavement .
That is not all ; the money gained in the exercise of my profession I have distributed to the poor ; I have been assiduous in attending church and those who formerly fled from me have become accustomed to seeing me .
To you—my preserver , perhaps !
“ You see , I , who never did a bad action but that I have told you of—am in destitution , with my poor wife dying of fever before my very eyes , and I unable to do anything in the world for her ; I shall die of hunger , as old Dantès did , while Fernand and Danglars are rolling in wealth. ” “ How is that ? ” “ Because their deeds have brought them good fortune , while honest men have been reduced to misery. ” “ What has become of Danglars , the instigator , and therefore the most guilty ? ” “ What has become of him ?
The snow deadened the noise of his fall .
“ It is—but you will not look , will you ? —it is because they have had the axe , with which criminals are executed , brought and placed there on the table .
Do you think his uncle De Winter would have brought up that young viper ?
Cardinal Mazarin as King .
Himself and the two young men represented the body of the army , whilst Olivain , with his rifle upon his knee and his eyes upon the watch , protected the rear .
Monte Cristo pressed his forehead on his burning hands , as if his brain could no longer bear alone the weight of its thoughts .
“ We will discuss that subject at length some future time , ” said he .
“ Besides , ” added he , “ if the smell of their roast meat tempts you , I will go and offer them two of our birds for a slice. ” “ You are a born diplomat , ” returned Franz ; “ go and try. ” Meanwhile the sailors had collected dried sticks and branches with which they made a fire .
“ Once more , ” replied the major .
“ And Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , of whom you spoke just now , Monsieur d ’ Herblay ; may I ask if you have any news of him ? ” “ We parted from him four days ago and we have reason to believe that he has reached Paris before us. ” “ No , sir ; I am sure he hasn ’ t yet arrived .
Odds fish !
The nocturnal visitor , ignorant of the fact that the count had removed the staples , might now think himself at home , and pursue his purpose with full security .
“ Is the conference ended ? ” asked Eugénie , rising .
I rushed towards the staircase , clutching my hair , and uttering a groan of horror .
“ What a devil of a face you have , Porthos !
40221m Château-Renaud was at his post ; apprised by Beauchamp of the circumstances , he required no explanation from Albert .
The night was dark , snow was falling , the streets were silent and deserted .
“ Nothing but one word ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
d ’ Avrigny , who attends my mother , declares he is in despair about it .
D ’ Artagnan , when he gave way to his own feelings—which were in accordance with those of the queen—had accomplished more than the most astute diplomacy could have attempted .
At sight of the officer Broussel was somewhat moved , but seeing him bow politely he rose and bowed also .
“ Pardon , my dear Monsieur Bonacieux , if I don ’ t stand upon ceremony , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ but nothing makes one so thirsty as want of sleep .
This event might have three causes : The first and the most natural was that it might be an ambuscade of the Rochellais , who might not be sorry to kill one of his Majesty ’ s Guards , because it would be an enemy the less , and this enemy might have a well-furnished purse in his pocket .
Well , you gave him the two hundred francs I had left for him ? ” “ Yes , your excellency. ” Andrea had expressed a wish to be thus addressed .
Porthos went before her , and instead of a finger , dipped his whole hand in .
“ As to what you say about not seeing you again , I believe not a word of it ; with such a heart as yours—and such a sword—one passes through the valley of the shadow of death a dozen times , unscathed and unalarmed .
If there are two , let Parry kill one and you the other .
“ Useless to look ; everything will come to us when wanted .
You would be the happier for it at home , sire , and I do not doubt you would be the greater for it abroad. ” “ Monsieur Duke , ” said the king , “ I understand you .
Oh , the royalists were very severe with the Bonapartists in those days. ” “ Monsieur , ” returned Villefort , “ I was then a royalist , because I believed the Bourbons not only the heirs to the throne , but the chosen of the nation .
Without this , Danglars would have been quite ignorant of the time , for daylight did not reach his cell .
Shot , my dear boy ?
“ Mademoiselle , mademoiselle ! ” exclaimed a voice from behind the trees .
Danglars brightened up on beholding it , fancying that it gave some promise of safety .
You have only to remain in Paris for about a fortnight , telling the world you are abandoned , and relating the details of this desertion to your best friends , who will soon spread the report .
The road led straight up to the chateau which , compared to its ancestor on the hill , was exactly what a fop of the coterie of the Duc d ’ Enghein would have been beside a knight in steel armor in the time of Charles VII .
Ah , very well , ” replied the cardinal , quickly .
Now , as upon this audience , in his Gascon imagination , depended his future life , he saluted Aramis and Porthos politely , declaring that he would not resume the game until he should be prepared to play with them on more equal terms , and went and took his place near the cord and in the gallery .
A magnificent peach was hanging against an adjoining wall , ripened by the same artificial heat .
Bonacieux to leave the convent , and to retire either into Lorraine or Belgium .
Take care that the French do not take their revenge on you for the Sicilian vespers. ” “ I will do my best. ” “ The streets are full of armed men , ” continued D ’ Artagnan .
M. d ’ Avrigny carried the science of divination almost to a miraculous extent , for he was one of the physicians who always work upon the body through the mind .
“ We are saved ! ” said Valentine .
“ My dear friend , General Cromwell has sent Monsieur Mordaunt to fetch me .
Cloud , in front of the pavilion which stands at the corner of the house of M. d ’ Estrées.—C.B. ” While reading this letter , D ’ Artagnan felt his heart dilated and compressed by that delicious spasm which tortures and caresses the hearts of lovers .
It is not of my wife , I hope ! ” “ On the contrary , it is of her .
He promised to be here , and I have very great faith in Planchet , who appears to me to be a very good lad. ” “ But if he does not come ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Hold !
“ Go on with your recital , sirs , ” said the queen , turning to the Duc de Chatillon .
who talks of killing Dantès ?
“ Oh , you may even see her if you like , my dear Mr. O ’ Reilly .
We ought to die together .
He ascended into grottos paved with emeralds , with panels of rubies , and the roof glowing with diamond stalactites .
Tilted on one side of her head she had a small cap of gold-colored silk , embroidered with pearls ; while on the other a purple rose mingled its glowing colors with the luxuriant masses of her hair , of which the blackness was so intense that it was tinged with blue .
“ Where ? ” “ In that box. ” “ No , ” replied the countess , “ it was certainly empty during the first act ; ” then , resuming the subject of their previous conversation , she said , “ And so you really believe it was your mysterious Count of Monte Cristo that gained the prize ? ” “ I am sure of it. ” “ And who afterwards sent the cup to me ? ” “ Undoubtedly. ” “ But I don ’ t know him , ” said the countess ; “ I have a great mind to return it. ” “ Do no such thing , I beg of you ; he would only send you another , formed of a magnificent sapphire , or hollowed out of a gigantic ruby .
The case was therefore prepared owing to the incessant labor of Villefort , who wished it to be the first on the list in the coming assizes .
Preparations were making on every side ; chairs were placed , scaffolds were raised , and windows were hung with flags .
A light yacht , chaste and elegant in its form , was gliding amidst the first dews of night over the immense lake , extending from Gibraltar to the Dardanelles , and from Tunis to Venice .
In short , he had reached that supreme moment when the bravest feel a shudder in their veins , when suddenly , in the direction of the Rue de l ’ Arbre-Sec , the crowd opened , crying : “ Long live the coadjutor ! ” and Gondy , in surplice and cloak , appeared , moving tranquilly in the midst of the fusillade and bestowing his benedictions to the right and left , as undisturbed as if he were leading a procession of the Fete Dieu .
Chapter LXVII .
“ Do you see that ray of sunlight ? ” “ I do. ” “ Well , the whole thing is more clear to me than that sunbeam is to you .
The aspect of external objects is often a mysterious guide communicating with the fibres of memory , which in spite of us will arouse them at times ; this thread , like that of Ariadne , when once unraveled will conduct one through a labyrinth of thought , in which one loses one ’ s self in endeavoring to follow that phantom of the past which is called recollection .
Science becomes , in their hands , not only a defensive weapon , but still more frequently an offensive one ; the one serves against all their physical sufferings , the other against all their enemies .
On her side , but as softly as possible , Kitty turned the key of the lock , and then D ’ Artagnan opened the closet door .
After breakfast , it was agreed that they should meet again in the evening at Athos ’ s lodging , and there finish their plans .
Why , people jest with death. ” “ And people are wrong , D ’ Artagnan ; for death is the door which leads to perdition or to salvation. ” “ Granted ; but if you please , let us not theologize , Aramis .
“ Oh , oh !
“ Fly , then ! ” cried Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , whose pity returned as her fears diminished ; “ fly ! ” “ Or kill yourself ! ” said Eugénie ( in a tone which a Vestal in the amphitheatre would have used , when urging the victorious gladiator to finish his vanquished adversary ) .
They turned round , and saw Diavolaccio bearing the young girl in his arms .
It was necessary to find some neutral ground on which an exchange could be made , and then to try and land these goods on the coast of France .
“ Back , people ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ your leader is dead ; you have no longer any business here. ” Indeed , as if De Rochefort had been the very soul of the attack , the crowd who had followed and obeyed him took to flight on seeing him fall .
They made him enter this carriage , the officer placed himself by his side , the door was locked , and they were left in a rolling prison .
Henceforth we have nothing to fear .
“ But for the sake of the mother ? ” said the count .
and you have not been tempted by the hopes of reputation yourself ? ” “ I should , my dear D ’ Artagnan , have been so , but nature said ‘ No. ’ When I am in the pulpit , if by chance a pretty woman looks at me , I look at her again : if she smiles , I smile too .
There only remained three things to decide—what they should write to Milady ’ s brother ; what they should write to the clever person at Tours ; and which should be the lackeys to carry the letters .
I can take you on my shoulders , and swim for both of us. ” “ My son , ” said the abbé , “ you , who are a sailor and a swimmer , must know as well as I do that a man so loaded would sink before he had done fifty strokes .
The tempest was let loose and beating the atmosphere with its mighty wings ; from time to time a flash of lightning stretched across the heavens like a fiery serpent , lighting up the clouds that rolled on in vast chaotic waves .
“ I was at the house of Monte Cristo an hour since , ” said Morrel ; “ we were speaking , he of the sorrow your family had experienced , and I of your grief , when a carriage rolled into the courtyard .
But you , my dear D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ What can you expect , my dear Porthos ; a man is not privileged in all ways , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Seven o ’ clock had just struck , and M. Bertuccio , according to the command which had been given him , had two hours before left for Auteuil , when a cab stopped at the door , and after depositing its occupant at the gate , immediately hurried away , as if ashamed of its employment .
The queen was , as we have said , of great beauty .
“ Have I any need to tell you so ?
Those who were not killed felt the heat of the flames .
He instantly rose and cast the remainder of the bouquets into the carriage .
Allow me , then , if you please , to answer in different order , or I will not do so at all. ” The astonished president looked at the jury , who in turn looked at Villefort .
He acquiesced , therefore , and chose the hundred pistoles , which the Englishman paid down on the spot .
You may copy it , give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org .
You know , Athos , you never spoke much of such matters. ” “ Ah , mon Dieu , yes , you are right , ” Athos replied ; “ but then there must be some occasion for speaking. ” “ Porthos wouldn ’ t have waited for it so patiently , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with a smile .
“ He said ‘ very good , ’ ” muttered the major , “ then—sir—— ” replied he .
D ’ Artagnan , a little recovered from his first surprise , had now leisure to study costumes and physiognomy .
I shall meet with a victim .
A cold perspiration burst from every pore , and his hair stood on end .
“ I have already had the honor of telling you I was , ” said Morrel .
Thus , from Fondi to Perusia , everyone trembles at the name of Cucumetto .
They asked a thousand livres for him .
They are veritable sponges !
He certainly likes the child , but will he love me less as his affection grows for her ? ” And Athos confessed to himself that , he was unprepared for so prompt a departure ; but Raoul was so happy that this reflection effaced everything else from the consideration of his guardian .
“ It is not courage that is needed ; it is prudence. ” “ And yet , ” cried Porthos , “ we will not leave— ” “ You will leave D ’ Artagnan to act as he thinks proper , ” said Athos .
You must die. ’ ” Athos , pale as a ghost , repeated these words to the man , who , seeing the bodeful preparations that were making , put himself in an attitude of defense .
But to return to what you were saying , Beauchamp. ” “ Well , do you know why they die so multitudinously at M. de Villefort ’ s ? ” “ ‘ Multitudinously ’ is good , ” said Château-Renaud .
Upon the landing leading to the chamber , and crouching against the door , he found the poor girl , all in a tremble .
“ And M. de Monte Cristo , King of China , Emperor of Cochin-China , ” said the young imp , looking slyly towards his sister .
In spite of his usual command over himself , Dantès could not restrain his impetuosity .
Since the first attack I experienced of this malady , I have continually reflected on it .
At the same time he was a man of elegant manners and strong mind , so that in addition to the revolution he had made in war , by his new contributions to its methods , he had also made a revolution at Paris , among the young noblemen of the court , whose natural chief he was and who , in distinction from the social leaders of the ancient court , modeled after Bassompierre , Bellegarde and the Duke d ’ Angouleme , were called the petits-maitres .
“ Well , monseigneur , ” replied the latter , “ three Musketeers and a Guardsman laid a wager with Monsieur de Busigny that they would go and breakfast in the bastion St. Gervais ; and while breakfasting they held it for two hours against the enemy , and have killed I don ’ t know how many Rochellais. ” “ Did you inquire the names of those three Musketeers ? ” “ Yes , monseigneur. ” “ What are their names ? ” “ Messieurs Athos , Porthos , and Aramis. ” “ Still my three brave fellows ! ” murmured the cardinal .
“ A year after , madame. ” “ Well ? ” “ I wanted to see the good curé again .
“ The cardinal exaggerated , as I perceive. ” “ But pray , sir , ” continued Aramis , who , seeing his captain become appeased , ventured to risk a prayer , “ do not say that Athos is wounded .
Three-quarters of an hour after , Barrois returned , bringing the notary with him .
He then entered the room .
“ And you have a letter ? ” “ Yes , there it is. ” “ Give it to me , then. ” And Monte Cristo took the letter , which he opened and read .
“ Yes , there is the sky ; here is the sea !
“ But where are you going to eat my breakfast ? ” asked the host .
“ Never mind ; let ’ s sit down to table and take something to strengthen us for the night. ” “ What are we to do , then , to-night ? ” “ To travel—perhaps. ” “ But—— ” “ Sit down , dear friend , to table .
This door was guarded by a sentinel and there was also a guard placed in the courtyard , ready to obey the orders of the Prince de Conti ’ s lieutenant .
You will have sufficient time before five o ’ clock ; despatch a messenger to apprise the grooms at the first station .
“ Of what consequence ? ” replied Milady .
“ Sometimes , ” said he , “ in my voyages , when I was a man and commanded other men , I have seen the heavens overcast , the sea rage and foam , the storm arise , and , like a monstrous bird , beating the two horizons with its wings .
He took Monte Cristo aside .
It was rumored that she was an object of almost paternal interest to one of the principal composers of the day , who excited her to spare no pains in the cultivation of her voice , which might hereafter prove a source of wealth and independence .
“ What do you wish , sir ? ” asked Morrel ; “ that I should renew my promise of remaining tranquil ? ” Noirtier ’ s eye remained fixed and firm , as if to imply that a promise did not suffice ; then it passed from his face to his hands .
“ Now , gentlemen , ” said he , “ conduct me where you will. ” Turning back again , he said , “ I thought I saw Winter move ; if he still lives , by all you hold most sacred , do not abandon him. ” “ Never fear , King Charles , ” said Mordaunt , “ the bullet pierced his heart. ” “ Do not breathe a word nor make the least sign to me or Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan to Athos and Aramis , “ that you recognize this man , for Milady is not dead ; her soul lives in the body of this demon. ” The detachment now moved toward the town with the royal captive ; but on the road an aide-de-camp , from Cromwell , sent orders that Colonel Tomlison should conduct him to Holdenby Castle .
It was a human storm , made up of a thunder of cries , and a hail of sweetmeats , flowers , eggs , oranges , and nosegays .
Her womanly pride and her queenly dignity had both been so cruelly offended that she could not come round at the first advance ; but , overpersuaded by the advice of her women , she at last had the appearance of beginning to forget .
When he was left alone the cardinal looked at himself in the glass with a feeling of self-satisfaction .
During this time he occupied himself in making figures , with his watch by his side .
Albert took Beauchamp aside , and communicated these ideas to him .
“ Let me hear , then , ” said the count , “ who this deeply regretted son was ; for I always understood you were a bachelor. ” “ That was the general opinion , sir , ” said the major , “ and I—— ” “ Yes , ” replied the count , “ and you confirmed the report .
Believe me , we have passed the time of success in intrigue , and your fine eyes are not destined to be eclipsed by regretting Paris , where there will always be two queens as long as you are there. ” “ Oh , ” cried the duchess , “ I can not make war alone , but I can avenge myself on that ungrateful queen and most ambitious favorite-on the honor of a duchess , I will avenge myself. ” “ Madame , ” replied Athos , “ do not injure the Vicomte de Bragelonne—do not ruin his prospects .
“ Excuse me , abbé , ” said the envoy of the prefect of the police , “ but the light tries my eyes very much. ” The abbé lowered the shade .
“ This is a magnificent habitation , ” said Beauchamp , looking towards the mausoleum ; “ a summer and winter palace .
“ You are examining the luxury I enjoy , ” said the queen , glancing sadly around her .
A black point floated on the sea .
You have merited it more than any of us by your wisdom and your counsels , always followed by such happy results. ” “ Alas , dear friend ! ” said Aramis , “ our late adventures have disgusted me with military life .
Villefort , therefore , gained nothing save the king ’ s gratitude ( which was rather likely to injure him at the present time ) and the cross of the Legion of Honor , which he had the prudence not to wear , although M. de Blacas had duly forwarded the brevet .
Porthos came down at once to the threshold of the hotel .
Milady possessed that great art , so much studied by women , of looking through her long eyelashes without appearing to open the lids .
The butt end of the musket hovered over his head , and he could scarcely restrain himself from closing his eyes , when with one bound Guiche reached the Spaniard and placed a pistol at his throat .
“ Very well , indeed , sir , ” replied Comminges ; “ at first , like you , he seemed distressed ; but when he heard that the cardinal was going to pay him a visit this very evening—— ” “ Ah ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ the cardinal is about to visit the Comte de la Fere ? ” “ Yes ; and the count desired me to tell you that he should take advantage of this visit to plead for you and for himself. ” “ Ah !
And who told you I had no affair with a lover ? ” “ It is a man , then , who expects you ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
I know it well ; I have studied it in all its forms and in the effects which it produces .
“ Help , help ! ” cried Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , taking the bell from her companion ’ s hand , and ringing it yet more violently .
“ Diavolo !
1.F.4 .
I broke my word , it is true ; but what signifies that ?
D ’ Artagnan fell at the feet of the cardinal .
“ Now , ” said Albert , “ that you have seen all my treasures , allow me to offer them to you , unworthy as they are .
“ Mr .
As I passed the city gates I declared that I had found the child on the road , and I inquired where the asylum was ; the box confirmed my statement , the linen proved that the infant belonged to wealthy parents , the blood with which I was covered might have proceeded from the child as well as from anyone else .
Ah , he is not generous , neither does he possess that supernatural penetration which you attribute to him , for if he did , he would have perceived that I was unhappy ; and if he had been generous , seeing me sad and solitary , he would have used his influence to my advantage , and since , as you say , he resembles the sun , he would have warmed my heart with one of his life-giving rays .
As regarded her attainments , the only fault to be found with them was the same that a fastidious connoisseur might have found with her beauty , that they were somewhat too erudite and masculine for so young a person .
I do not know you. ” “ Read this letter , ” he said , handing it to her .
“ I wish you to do so , ” said he .
The jailer continued : “ Now this was his project .
The priest having all confidence in his guest , who , besides , was a nobleman , had left to him his house , his supper and his chamber .
Porthos effaced himself against the wall , but he could not render himself invisible ; and the man in the cloak said to him , giving him his lantern : “ Light the lamp which hangs from the ceiling. ” Then addressing D ’ Artagnan : “ You know the watchword ? ” he said .
“ Ah , ha ! ” said he , “ I hope all is over , explained and settled. ” “ Yes , ” said Beauchamp ; “ the absurd reports have died away , and should they be renewed , I would be the first to oppose them ; so let us speak no more of it. ” “ Albert will tell you , ” replied the count “ that I gave him the same advice .
“ She remembered that she had a son , ” said he ; “ and I forgot I had a daughter. ” Then , shaking his head sorrowfully , “ Poor Haydée , ” said he ; “ she wished to see me , to speak to me ; she has feared or guessed something .
Mouston appeared , with a most piteous face .
Oh , my God !
“ The son has been educated in a college in the south ; I believe near Marseilles .
The ball was not a musket ball—it was an arquebus ball .
“ Should we not do better in the grottos ? ” “ What grottos ? ” “ Why , the grottos—caves of the island. ” “ I do not know of any grottos , ” replied Jacopo .
I think the arm will make up for the sword. ” “ Halt ! ” cried Porthos coming forward .
Shall two members of the House be sent to Yanina ?
Cruel enough , if I am guilty ; but what name can you give it , what name will the Lord give it , if I am innocent ? ” “ I am a soldier , madame , and fulfill the orders I have received. ” “ Do you believe , then , that at the day of the Last Judgment God will separate blind executioners from iniquitous judges ?
The brother did not perceive this ; he had turned round to play with Milady ’ s favorite monkey , which had pulled him by the doublet .
you , Rochefort !
The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States .
Pray speak of it , for I shall not only , I trust , relate the little I do know , but also a great deal I do not know. ” “ It seems to me , ” returned the count , smiling , “ that you played a sufficiently important part to know as well as myself what happened. ” 20249m “ Well , you promise me , if I tell all I know , to relate , in your turn , all that I do not know ? ” “ That is but fair , ” replied Monte Cristo .
He darted to his bedroom to see once more all he had loved in the world ; but the hackney-coach drove on and the head of neither Mercédès nor her son appeared at the window to take a last look at the house or the deserted father and husband .
It is Raoul who has worked in me the change you see ; I was dried up like a miserable tree , isolated , attached to nothing on earth ; it was only a deep affection that could make me take root again and drag me back to life .
Why you have drunk more than a hundred pistoles ’ worth !
“ Yes , ” said the queen ; “ but his son ? ” “ His son , madame , must be , since the husband of the son ’ s mother is. ” “ And your friend has nothing more to ask for Madame de Longueville ? ” “ No , madame , for I presume that the king , standing godfather to him , could do no less than present him with five hundred thousand francs , giving his father , also , the government of Normandy. ” “ As to the government of Normandy , ” replied the queen , “ I think I can promise ; but with regard to the present , the cardinal is always telling me there is no more money in the royal coffers. ” “ We shall search for some , madame , and I think we can find a little , and if your majesty approves , we will seek for some together. ” “ What next ? ” “ What next , madame ? ” “ Yes. ” “ That is all. ” “ Haven ’ t you , then , a fourth companion ? ” “ Yes , madame , the Comte de la Fere. ” “ What does he ask ? ” “ Nothing. ” “ There is in the world , then , one man who , having the power to ask , asks—nothing ! ” “ There is the Comte de la Fere , madame .
“ I am profoundly ignorant of all these stock-jobbing intrigues. ” “ Because , ” said Albert , laughing , “ one piece of news follows another , and there is often great dissimilarity between them. ” “ Ah , ” said the count , “ I see that M. Danglars is accustomed to play at gaining or losing 300,000 francs in a day ; he must be enormously rich. ” “ It is not he who plays ! ” exclaimed Lucien ; “ it is Madame Danglars ; she is indeed daring. ” “ But you who are a reasonable being , Lucien , and who knows how little dependence is to be placed on the news , since you are at the fountain-head , surely you ought to prevent it , ” said Morcerf , with a smile .
Aramis smiled as one who hopes .
Athos followed them , then Porthos , then Aramis .
“ Now , sir , ” continued Morrel , “ in these days no one can disappear by violent means without some inquiries being made as to the cause of her disappearance , even were she not a young , beautiful , and adorable creature like Valentine .
D ’ Artagnan approached quickly , making a sign to his two companions to remain a few steps behind .
You are in love with a woman whom the cardinal has caused to be shut up , and you wish to get her out of the hands of the cardinal .
Go ; make out my bill and notify my servant. ” “ What , monsieur , will you leave us so soon ? ” “ You know that very well , as I gave my order to saddle my horse .
Every delicious fruit that the four quarters of the globe could provide was heaped in vases from China and jars from Japan .
“ But tell me , Valentine , how has it all been effected ?
This reasoning seemed to D ’ Artagnan so satisfactory that he no further insisted ; and about eight o ’ clock in the evening , the time when the vapors of night begin to thicken in the streets , he left the Hotel de la Chevrette , and followed by Planchet set forth from the capital by way of the Saint Denis gate .
Let us to bed ! ” And Athos went out of the Parpaillot , followed by D ’ Artagnan .
I will take him for judge in his own cause , monsieur , and will believe what he will say. ” M. de la Trémouille reflected for an instant ; then as it was difficult to suggest a more reasonable proposal , he agreed to it .
While the three gentlemen walked along the Piazza di Spagna and the Via Frattina , which led directly between the Fiano and Rospoli palaces , Franz ’ s attention was directed towards the windows of that last palace , for he had not forgotten the signal agreed upon between the man in the mantle and the Transtevere peasant .
I hope you have no repugnance to accept me as your guardian in the interim. ” “ Oh , no , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said Raoul , “ you are such a brave gentleman and the Comte de la Fere has so much affection for you ! ” “ Eh !
D ’ Artagnan believed it right to say that vengeance is the pleasure of the gods .
“ Does that satisfy you ? ” said Athos to his adversary .
He might perhaps have been bought for less ; but while D ’ Artagnan was discussing the price with the dealer , Athos was counting out the money on the table .
What must I answer ? ” “ The truth. ” “ Then I shall say the duel did not take place ? ” “ You will say I apologized to the Count of Monte Cristo .
In short , Madame Danglars , not being able personally to examine in detail the domestic economy and household arrangements of a man who gave away horses worth 30,000 francs and who went to the opera with a Greek slave wearing diamonds to the amount of a million of money , had deputed those eyes , by which she was accustomed to see , to give her a faithful account of the mode of life of this incomprehensible person .
He felt convinced of his identity , but he did not venture to address him. ” “ An Englishman , ” said Monte Cristo , who grew uneasy at the attention with which Julie looked at him .
Peter blessed with the _fingers_ .
Milady therefore continued , coloring her narrations more and more .
“ Yes , madame. ” “ Well , then , ” pursued Madame G—— with considerable animation , “ you can probably tell me who won the Jockey Club stakes ? ” “ I am sorry to say I can not , ” replied the baron ; “ and I was just asking the same question of Albert. ” “ Are you very anxious to know , countess ? ” asked Albert .
He examined him , and found him sound and without blemish .
The count never plays , he only drinks pure water tinged with a little sherry , and is so rich that he can not , without intending to laugh at me , try to borrow money .
“ With your permission , ” said Danglars , bowing , “ I will precede you , to show you the way. ” “ By all means , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ I follow you. ” Chapter 47 .
“ However , ” continued Faria , seeing that the inspector was about to depart , “ it is not absolutely necessary for us to be alone ; the governor can be present. ” “ Unfortunately , ” said the governor , “ I know beforehand what you are about to say ; it concerns your treasures , does it not ? ” Faria fixed his eyes on him with an expression that would have convinced anyone else of his sanity .
Aramis had some slight inclination to resume the cassock .
At this moment the door of the guardhouse was opened and one of the soldiers was summoned away .
“ Then , ” continued he , “ there is a horse for my lackey , and my valise .
“ What , ” asked the duke , “ what do you mean ? ” and he gave him the cane again , first making a semicircle from the head to the tail of Pistache .
The king therefore arose a minute after , and putting the money which lay before him into his pocket , the major part of which arose from his winnings , “ La Vieuville , ” said he , “ take my place ; I must speak to Monsieur de Tréville on an affair of importance .
Therefore Athos had invented the phrase , _family affair_ .
Then she retired so gently that Valentine did not know she had left the room .
We have already said that there was something in the count which attracted universal attention wherever he appeared .
I am not so much at liberty as you suppose ; on the contrary , I have a most important engagement. ” “ Ah , take care , you were teaching me just now how , in case of an invitation to dinner , one might creditably make an excuse .
As to Porthos—oh , as to Porthos , faith , that ’ s a droll affair ! ” And in spite of himself , the young man began to laugh aloud , looking round carefully , however , to see that his solitary laugh , without a cause in the eyes of passers-by , offended no one .
“ My lord , one last favor. ” “ What ?
“ And now , my good friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan to him , “ I must invite you to deprive yourself , for my sake , of your hat and cloak. ” The coachman , as we can well understand , made no resistance ; in fact , he was so astonished at what had happened to him that he stammered and reeled like a drunken man ; D ’ Artagnan deposited his clothes under the arm of one of the valets .
The star of day , pale but nevertheless still splendid , was setting in the horizon , glorifying at once the heavens and the sea with bands of fire , and casting upon the towers and the old houses of the city a last ray of gold which made the windows sparkle like the reflection of a conflagration .
On entering the banker ’ s mansion , they perceived the phaeton and servant of M. Andrea Cavalcanti .
Sang Diou !
One step farther into rest , —two , perhaps , into silence .
There—listen ! ’ And at this moment there was a tremendous peal of thunder , while the livid lightning illumined the room , and the thunder , rolling away in the distance , seemed to withdraw unwillingly from the cursed abode .
“ I swear to you , on my honor , ” said he , “ to await your decision respecting the course I am to pursue with M. d ’ Épinay. ” “ That is right , ” said the old man .
Then as the crowd gradually dispersed he leaped down , crept from behind the drapery , glided between two horses , mingled with the crowd and was the first to arrive at the inn .
He found the duke reclining upon a sofa , with his hand pressed upon the wound .
Have you a name , then ? ” “ I bear that of your brother. ” “ Ay , but you are mistaken .
Will they not sign it ? ” “ No , ” said the paralytic .
Do you keep a journal ? ” “ No , my life has been passed in frivolity ; I wish to forget it myself. ” “ Do you talk in your sleep ? ” 30275m “ I sleep soundly , like a child ; do you not remember ? ” The color mounted to the baroness ’ s face , and Villefort turned awfully pale .
Franz let him proceed without interruption , and , in fact , did not hear what was said ; he longed to be alone , and free to ponder over all that had occurred .
D ’ Artagnan was acquainted with Villars-Cotterets , having gone thither with the court on several occasions ; for at that time Villars-Cotterets was a royal residence .
Ten leagues were passed and not a single word was uttered .
An opportunity presented itself to him in which there would be at the same time glory to be acquired , and money to be gained ; and as a far higher encouragement , it brought him into close intimacy with a woman he adored .
Chapter IX .
For the rest , in the memoirs of this period , which has left so many memoirs , one does not find this worthy gentleman blamed even by his enemies ; and he had many such among men of the pen as well as among men of the sword .
No entreaty , no proposition of increased wages , could induce them to remain ; to every argument they replied , “ We must go , for death is in this house. ” They all left , in spite of prayers and entreaties , testifying their regret at leaving so good a master and mistress , and especially Mademoiselle Valentine , so good , so kind , and so gentle .
D ’ Artagnan turned to look at his friends .
“ I beg your excellency ’ s pardon , ” interposed the steward in a deprecating manner , “ for venturing to observe that it is already two o ’ clock. ” “ I am perfectly aware of that fact , ” answered Monte Cristo calmly .
To doubt any longer was impossible ; there was the evidence of the senses , and ten thousand persons who came to corroborate the testimony .
“ Continue to seek for this man , sir , ” said the king to the minister of police ; “ for if , as I am all but convinced , General Quesnel , who would have been so useful to us at this moment , has been murdered , his assassins , Bonapartists or not , shall be cruelly punished. ” It required all Villefort ’ s coolness not to betray the terror with which this declaration of the king inspired him .
“ I address you , because you know , that although I esteem him from my heart I am a little awed by the Comte de la Fere ; but it is understood that what I offer you I offer him at the same time .
Let us send in our names , and if he does not send us a suitable message we will leave him to his own affairs or those of France .
A fine and white stocking , a silken robe , a lace kerchief , a pretty slipper on the foot , a tasty ribbon on the head do not make an ugly woman pretty , but they make a pretty woman beautiful , without reckoning the hands , which gain by all this ; the hands , among women particularly , to be beautiful must be idle .
She remembered that almost unlimited promise which the cardinal had given her if she succeeded in her enterprise .
I have no influence with any one .
do you come from the end of the world ? ” said Monte Cristo ; “ you , a journalist , the husband of renown ?
She had succeeded ; D ’ Artagnan was then in her power !
Do you wish these proofs , these attestations , which I alone possess , to be destroyed ?
“ ’ Tis not too warm to walk , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan .
Buckingham saw by the expression of the young man ’ s face what was passing in his mind , and he smiled .
M. Noirtier again closed his eyes .
Confess ; you know I have the right of giving absolution. ” “ I , monseigneur ? ” said Athos .
The walls are thick , the doors strong , and the bars solid ; besides , your window opens immediately over the sea .
His rider was a priest , dressed in black , and wearing a three-cornered hat ; and , spite of the ardent rays of a noonday sun , the pair came on with a fair degree of rapidity .
Why did you not come down to breakfast ?
Instead of going direct to his study , M. Morrel had returned to his bedchamber , which he was only this moment quitting .
“ And you did not tell him that you came from me ? ” “ No , sir. ” At ten o ’ clock Athos , with his habitual exactitude , was waiting on the Pont du Louvre and was almost immediately joined by Lord de Winter .
“ Oh , I can not behold this frightful spectacle ! ” said he .
Within reach of her hand they placed a small table upon which stood a bottle of orangeade , her usual beverage , and a glass .
To speak its language tolerably , to make a good appearance , to be a good gamester , and to pay in cash .
As to D ’ Artagnan , he did not budge from his apartment .
“ Well , ” said the other , “ if this last resource fail you ? ” “ Well , ” returned Morrel , “ it is a cruel thing to be forced to say , but , already used to misfortune , I must habituate myself to shame .
This hurt is just the fellow of the one I had on the road to Amiens. ” Porthos turned around like a lion , plunged on the dismounted cavalier , who tried to draw his sword ; but before it was out of the scabbard , Porthos , with the hilt of his had struck him such a terrible blow on the head that he fell like an ox beneath the butcher ’ s knife .
It had glided down it , tearing the robe , and had penetrated slantingly between the flesh and the ribs .
to the Huguenots as places of safety , there only remained La Rochelle .
“ Could the prisoners see each other ? ” he asked .
Paris , you can understand , is astonished at the sight of such unusual splendor , and the police have made inquiries. ” “ Well , well !
She should certainly return from her exile—she did not doubt that a single instant ; but how long might this exile last ?
Having given various orders to Bertuccio relative to the improvements and alterations he desired to make in the house , the Count , drawing out his watch , said to the attentive Nubian : “ It is half-past eleven o ’ clock ; Haydée will soon be here .
“ I shall ask him. ” “ Just the very way not to know .
As D ’ Artagnan so constantly frequented the hôtel , no difficulty was made in complying with his request , and a servant went to inform M. de Tréville that his young compatriot , having something important to communicate , solicited a private audience .
A Conjugal Scene Chapter 66 .
He dreamed that he was endowed with wings—he wished to fly away .
I have a son too , and I should be very wroth with those who detained him from me after a three months ’ voyage. ” “ Then I have your leave , sir ? ” “ Yes , if you have nothing more to say to me. ” “ Nothing. ” “ Captain Leclere did not , before he died , give you a letter for me ? ” “ He was unable to write , sir .
A circle was immediately formed around the door .
The minister of police , giving way to an impulse of despair , was about to throw himself at the feet of Louis XVIII. , who retreated a step and frowned .
He stooped , and with the most gracious air he could assume , drew the handkerchief from under the foot of the Musketeer in spite of the efforts the latter made to detain it , and holding it out to him , said , “ I believe , monsieur , that this is a handkerchief you would be sorry to lose ? ” The handkerchief was indeed richly embroidered , and had a coronet and arms at one of its corners .
What am I ?
The Fifth of October It was about six o ’ clock in the evening ; an opal-colored light , through which an autumnal sun shed its golden rays , descended on the blue ocean .
You told me to wait and hope ; do you know what you did , unfortunate adviser ?
The general drew himself up , clinging to the curtain ; he uttered the most dreadful sob which ever escaped from the bosom of a father abandoned at the same time by his wife and son .
Mordaunt ! ” cried the three friends ; “ ’ tis Mordaunt ! ” “ But Athos ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan .
“ Well , that tends to confirm my own ideas , ” said Franz , “ that the countess ’ s suspicions were destitute alike of sense and reason .
The Count of Morcerf was no favorite with his colleagues .
“ ‘ You must be tired , ’ said she to the jeweller ; ‘ I have spread a pair of white sheets on your bed ; go up when you are ready , and sleep well. ’ “ Joannes stayed for a while to see whether the storm seemed to abate in its fury , but a brief space of time sufficed to assure him that , instead of diminishing , the violence of the rain and thunder momentarily increased ; resigning himself , therefore , to what seemed inevitable , he bade his host good-night , and mounted the stairs .
He confessed that he had undertaken with his comrade—the same who was killed—to carry off a young woman who was to leave Paris by the Barrière de La Villette ; but having stopped to drink at a cabaret , they had missed the carriage by ten minutes .
The baroness did not wait for a repetition ; she ran to her husband , who immediately hastened to his agent , and ordered him to sell at any price .
“ Did parliament pass this act ? ” Athos asked of him in English .
incendiary !
“ Order of the king , I tell you .
I have warned you !
Finally , Athos undertook to provide , in any event , the means of leaving England—in case either of failure or of success .
Do they know him ? ” asked Château-Renaud .
All at once she uttered a loud cry of joy , and darted toward the door ; she had recognized the voice of D ’ Artagnan .
If that were so he was indeed a highly favored prince .
Ten minutes afterward Planchet joined him at the stables of the Hôtel des Gardes .
“ Come , ” said he to himself , “ be a man .
By degrees the wind abated , vast gray clouds rolled towards the west , and the blue firmament appeared studded with bright stars .
Eugénie ordered the porter to put down the portmanteau , gave him some pieces of money , and having rapped at the shutter sent him away .
You heard M. de Villefort talking to M. d ’ Avrigny about the death of M. de Saint-Méran , and that no less surprising , of the countess .
“ Have you answered the question I put to you on entering the room ? —where do you keep the poison you generally use , madame ? ” Madame de Villefort raised her arms to heaven , and convulsively struck one hand against the other .
on the honor of a gentleman ; but I can not be imprisoned for the reason alleged ; it is impossible. ” “ What reason ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
He reeled back with a shudder and the same moment the drops became a crimson cataract .
The execution will therefore only be delayed long enough for you to arrange your spiritual and temporal affairs. ” A slight moisture on his brow was the only trace of emotion that Charles evinced , as he learned these tidings .
Astonished at the prolonged slumber of the patient , and frightened to see that the arm was still hanging out of the bed , she advanced towards Valentine , and for the first time noticed the white lips .
Before ten minutes had elapsed the child returned .
“ Truly , my daughter , ” replied he with a smile , “ you are all you boast of being , excepting one thing ; I will not too hastily tell you which , but would rather leave you to guess it. ” Eugénie looked at Danglars , much surprised that one flower of her crown of pride , with which she had so superbly decked herself , should be disputed .
Morrel does not know my name ; this worthy gentleman has only to announce the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French of Rome , with whom your father does business. ” The young girl turned pale and continued to descend , while the stranger and Cocles continued to mount the staircase .
God has sent you to me to console , at one and the same time , the man who could not be a father , and the prisoner who could not get free. ” And Faria extended the arm of which alone the use remained to him to the young man , who threw himself upon his neck and wept .
Besides , it were better to die than to continue to lead this low and wretched life. ” Thus Dantès , who but three months before had no desire but liberty had now not liberty enough , and panted for wealth .
“ My name must rest unknown , ” replied Franz ; “ merely say I am a Frenchman travelling for pleasure. ” As soon as Gaetano had transmitted this answer , the sentinel gave an order to one of the men seated round the fire , who rose and disappeared among the rocks .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied Mousqueton .
I own I was seeking them. ” “ Why , when all was arranged ? ” “ Listen , count ; the affair is serious and unavoidable. ” “ Did you doubt it ! ” “ No ; the offence was public , and everyone is already talking of it. ” “ Well ? ” “ Well , I hoped to get an exchange of arms , —to substitute the sword for the pistol ; the pistol is blind. ” “ Have you succeeded ? ” asked Monte Cristo quickly , with an imperceptible gleam of hope .
For the present , I will confine myself ( if perfectly agreeable to you ) to introducing you to the Baroness Danglars—excuse my impatience , my dear count , but a client like you is almost like a member of the family. ” Monte Cristo bowed , in sign that he accepted the proffered honor ; Danglars rang and was answered by a servant in a showy livery .
“ Yes , gentlemen , the king in person , the king who has come to ask for some account of what has happened. ” “ What is the matter , sire ? ” exclaimed Lord Leven .
The queen had them .
He immediately called D ’ Artagnan .
Without a blush , men made their way in the world by the means of women blushing .
“ Oh , decidedly , sir .
Why , in the first place , his yacht is not a ship , but a bird , and he would beat any frigate three knots in every nine ; and if he were to throw himself on the coast , why , is he not certain of finding friends everywhere ? ” It was perfectly clear that the Signor Sinbad , Franz ’ s host , had the honor of being on excellent terms with the smugglers and bandits along the whole coast of the Mediterranean , and so enjoyed exceptional privileges .
Chapter LXXVII .
“ Nothing , sir ; it is a resolution which my father has taken and I know he never alters his mind .
“ You knew I should be killed on leaving this house , and did not warn me ! ” 40168m “ No ; for I saw God ’ s justice placed in the hands of Benedetto , and should have thought it sacrilege to oppose the designs of Providence. ” “ God ’ s justice !
The soldiers interposed their bayonets , for they thought that he was about to attack the inspector , and the latter recoiled two or three steps .
Even his breathing seemed to be arrested .
it is his voice ! ” All still remained silent , the eyes of all were turned in the direction where the vessel had disappeared , endeavoring in vain to penetrate the darkness .
It was evident from his pale face and knit brows that his resolution to revenge himself was growing weaker .
The two Cavalcanti bowed to the count , and left the house .
“ Ah , this is not right ; Athos insults us ; he wishes to die alone ; it is bad , bad , bad. ” Mousqueton , witnessing this despair , melted into tears in a corner of the room .
27 , ” replied the count .
“ Alas , alas ! ” said he to himself , “ misfortune is over my head ; my wife must have committed some frightful crime .
de Chevreuse was at Tours .
Unfortunately , however , Morrel had not only engagements with the house of Thomson & French , who had shown themselves so considerate towards him ; and , as he had said , in business he had correspondents , and not friends .
Monsieur d ’ Arminges was already mounted .
D ’ Artagnan took advantage of the circumstance to find a place in the hedge not so thick , where his glance could penetrate to the supposed cavalier .
This village , constructed in a singular and picturesque manner , half Moorish , half Spanish , still remains , and is inhabited by descendants of the first comers , who speak the language of their fathers .
But he had no sooner eaten than he felt thirsty ; he had forgotten that .
All night he heard the subterranean workman , who continued to mine his way .
Will it last long ? ” “ By ’ r Lady !
I will look at it again ; ” and he read the paragraph for the third time , laying a stress on each word as he proceeded .
“ Well ?
He would not have believed that two sentiments so opposite could dwell in the same heart , and by their union constitute a passion so strange , and as it were , diabolical .
“ And now , ” said Athos , “ unless Monsieur Cardinal should form the ingenious idea of ripping up Grimaud , I think we may be pretty much at our ease respecting the letter. ” Meantime , his Eminence continued his melancholy ride , murmuring between his mustaches , “ These four men must positively be mine. ” Chapter LII .
“ I thought I had , ” said Porthos , resuming his melancholy air ; “ but I have been taught my mistake. ” “ You have some ! ” cried the procurator ’ s wife , in a transport that surprised even herself .
The father of M. de Tréville had served him so faithfully in his wars against the league that in default of money—a thing to which the Béarnais was accustomed all his life , and who constantly paid his debts with that of which he never stood in need of borrowing , that is to say , with ready wit—in default of money , we repeat , he authorized him , after the reduction of Paris , to assume for his arms a golden lion passant upon gules , with the motto _Fidelis et fortis_ .
One minute that knife , one minute , a single minute , and I will restore it to you through the grating of the door .
“ He entered the apartment followed by a man in a mask .
“ You will see me talking with one of my friends , the Abbé d ’ Herblay , of whom you have often heard me speak. ” “ I remember him , monsieur. ” “ Come near to us from time to time , as if to speak ; but do not speak , and do not listen .
As Porthos had foreseen , the cavalcade produced a good effect ; and if Mme .
Have you not yet divined who he is ? ” “ What ? ” cried Felton , “ he—again he—always he ?
here are the august signatures of your majesty ’ s hand ; if you think you are right in giving them to me , you shall do so , but from this very moment you are free from any obligation to keep them. ” And D ’ Artagnan , full of splendid pride and manly intrepidity , placed in Anne ’ s hands , in a bundle , the papers that he had one by one won from her with so much difficulty .
“ Is your name Bonacieux ? ” said he .
He attacked this wall , cemented by the hand of time , with his pickaxe .
These words were lost in the noise which the carriage made in rolling over the pavement of La Villette .
Morrel now emerged from his hiding-place , where he had remained quite unperceived , so great had been the general confusion .
Then it will devolve on you to push him on in that world where he is called on to occupy a place. ” “ Rest assured , ” cried the duchess , “ I shall do what I can .
then they allow the lackey to remain with him ? ” “ Yes ; Stuart begged this favor and Harrison consented .
“ And what have I done , dear grandpapa , that you should be angry with me ? ” cried Valentine .
I have , however , a wish to go and pass a day at Blois .
The surprise and agitation occasioned by this full confirmation of Franz ’ s former suspicion had no doubt imparted a corresponding expression to his features ; for the countess , after gazing with a puzzled look at his face , burst into a fit of laughter , and begged to know what had happened .
“ Ah , sir , ” she muttered , “ ah , sir , ” and this was all .
“ Pardon me for quitting you , my dear Madame Bonacieux , ” said he ; “ but , not knowing you would come to see me , I had made an engagement with a friend .
The next morning he could not see or hear ; the jailer feared he was dangerously ill. Edmond hoped he was dying .
D ’ Artagnan then returned home in thoughtful mood , finding a somewhat lively pleasure in carrying Mazarin ’ s bag of money and thinking of that fine diamond which he had once called his own and which he had seen on the minister ’ s finger that night .
The Beggar The evening passed on ; Madame de Villefort expressed a desire to return to Paris , which Madame Danglars had not dared to do , notwithstanding the uneasiness she experienced .
oh !
The moaning of waves , the noise of thunder , the roaring of a volcano , can not be compared with the tempest of cries heard at that moment .
He was concealed in a thicket ; he saw my father bury something in the ground , and stabbed him ; then thinking the deposit might contain some treasure he turned up the ground , and found me still living .
“ Where is Athos ? ” “ In the cellar , monsieur. ” “ What , you scoundrel !
Andrea was gone .
They were playing together , as usual , when seven o ’ clock sounded ; the patrol was heard passing to double the posts .
The two friends , as we see , were worthy of and understood one another .
The three gentlemen took the road to Picardy , a road so well known to them and which recalled to Athos and Aramis some of the most picturesque adventures of their youth .
Felton was sent away .
Canst thou speak any patois ? ” “ I can do something better than that , sir , I can speak Flemish. ” “ Where the devil didst thou learn it ? ” “ In Artois , where I fought for years .
“ But wait a minute , ” said M. de Tréville , stopping him .
Has she , then , been appointed provost of merchants ? ” “ No ; but she has become queen of Paris , ad interim , and since she could not venture at once to establish herself in the Palais Royal or the Tuileries , she is installed at the Hotel de Ville , where she is on the point of giving an heir or an heiress to that dear duke. ” “ You didn ’ t tell me of that , Aramis. ” “ Really ?
Those lips were magnificent ; they might be said to be of coral .
“ At this moment one of the door-keepers brought in a letter for the president .
“ Now !
But let us return to business. ” “ Yes. ” “ I was going to say , if I were in your place—— ” “ Well. ” “ I would realize—— ” “ How would you realize ? ” “ I would ask for six months ’ in advance , under pretence of being able to purchase a farm , then with my six months I would decamp. ” “ Well , well , ” said Andrea , “ that isn ’ t a bad idea. ” “ My dear friend , ” said Caderousse , “ eat of my bread , and take my advice ; you will be none the worse off , physically or morally. ” “ But , ” said Andrea , “ why do you not act on the advice you gave me ?
“ He brings an irreproachable name , which Maximilian is likely to render glorious , since at thirty years of age he is a captain , an officer of the Legion of Honor. ” The old man signified that he recollected him .
“ With your belt , my lord ! ” replied La Ramee .
50039m “ Oh , the magnificent hair ! ” said Louise , with regret .
I am not like you , viscount ; you like your title , do you not ? ” “ Certainly , ” replied Albert , “ seeing that without my title I should be nothing ; while you , sacrificing the baron , would still remain the millionaire. ” “ Which seems to me the finest title under the royalty of July , ” replied Danglars .
Oh , no ! ” exclaimed Edmond , “ that will not be .
Coquenard distributed this dish to the young men with the moderation of a good housewife .
The queen gave them to me , the queen requires them again .
After some time Cucumetto became the object of universal attention ; the most extraordinary traits of ferocious daring and brutality were related of him .
The junction of the bodice and drawers was entirely concealed by one of the many-colored scarves , whose brilliant hues and rich silken fringe have rendered them so precious in the eyes of Parisian belles .
Will you believe the government of a republic , a kingdom , and an empire ? ” Albert cast his eyes on the passport , then raised them in astonishment to Beauchamp .
He concluded by saying that he placed his feeble influence at her majesty ’ s command .
“ Do not my mother and you agree ? ” asked Albert , astonished .
I have always said to you , ‘ I love you as a brother ; but do not ask from me more than sisterly affection , for my heart is another ’ s. ’ Is not this true , Fernand ? ” “ Yes , that is very true , Mercédès , ” replied the young man , “ Yes , you have been cruelly frank with me ; but do you forget that it is among the Catalans a sacred law to intermarry ? ” 0045m “ You mistake , Fernand ; it is not a law , but merely a custom , and , I pray of you , do not cite this custom in your favor .
I saw you were unhappy , and your unhappiness interested me ; that ’ s all ; but since you believe I act for my own account , adieu , my dear friend , get out of the affair as best you may ; ” and Danglars rose as if he meant to depart .
Bonacieux , throwing herself between the combatants and seizing the swords with her hands .
I say _there_ , for as I did not consider my house safe enough , or lawyers sufficiently discreet , and as landed property carries evidence with it , and moreover since you have no right to possess anything independent of your husband , I have kept this sum , now your whole fortune , in a chest concealed under that closet , and for greater security I myself concealed it there .
Chapter LXXII .
On the contrary , there is not an hour we have passed together that is not present to my memory. ” “ Yes , yes , ” said Porthos , trying to give to his mustache a curl which it had lost whilst he had been alone .
Then Caderousse sat astride the coping , and drawing up his ladder passed it over the wall ; then he began to descend , or rather to slide down by the two stanchions , which he did with an ease which proved how accustomed he was to the exercise .
One of the two men , whose mysterious meeting in the Colosseum he had so unintentionally witnessed , was an entire stranger to him , but not so the other ; and though Franz had been unable to distinguish his features , from his being either wrapped in his mantle or obscured by the shadow , the tones of his voice had made too powerful an impression on him the first time he had heard them for him ever again to forget them , hear them when or where he might .
Bonacieux pushed a little servants ’ door , open by day but generally closed at night .
Is it not so ? ” “ Eh , who knows ?
He had retired at one o ’ clock under the pretense of being indisposed .
The count placed himself between Caderousse and the window , thus cutting off from the thief his only chance of retreat .
I called on Fernand , who sent me a hundred francs by his valet-de-chambre. ” “ Then you did not see either of them ? ” “ No , but Madame de Morcerf saw me. ” “ How was that ? ” “ As I went away a purse fell at my feet—it contained five-and-twenty louis ; I raised my head quickly , and saw Mercédès , who at once shut the blind. ” “ And M. de Villefort ? ” asked the abbé .
“ Good heavens ! ” he exclaimed .
“ A change. ” “ Indeed ? ” said Albert .
Who knows , when I shall be at liberty , that I may not satisfy your curiosity ? ” “ And will you make the same promise to my love ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan , beside himself with joy .
“ Oh !
“ Bazin , my friend , ” said Aramis , “ you don ’ t seem to be aware that I can see you in that mirror , and you forget that once for all I have forbidden all signs of approbation or disapprobation .
“ Great heavens ? ” suddenly exclaimed Debray .
“ I , ” said Aramis , in his most flutelike tone , “ I had made up my mind .
They must set out the next morning at daybreak , and go to Armentières—each by a different route .
“ Suddenly , about ten paces from them , a man advanced from behind a tree and aimed at Vampa .
“ I am the Chevalier de Rochefort , ” answered the other , “ the equerry of Monsieur le Cardinal Richelieu , and I have orders to conduct you to his Eminence. ” “ We are returning to his Eminence , monsieur the Chevalier , ” said Athos , advancing ; “ and you will please to accept the word of Monsieur d ’ Artagnan that he will go straight to La Rochelle. ” “ I must place him in the hands of guards who will take him into camp. ” “ We will be his guards , monsieur , upon our word as gentlemen ; but likewise , upon our word as gentlemen , ” added Athos , knitting his brow , “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan shall not leave us. ” The Chevalier de Rochefort cast a glance backward , and saw that Porthos and Aramis had placed themselves between him and the gate ; he understood that he was completely at the mercy of these four men .
Just reflect a little what an agitation the queen ’ s mind must be in for her to have remembered me after twenty years. ” “ It is true , ” said Porthos .
“ But in his present condition he will promise anything , and take his chance of keeping it afterwards. ” “ I will do more than I promise , ” said Dantès .
“ Oh , yes ; ” she said , “ I saw , but I can not believe ! ” “ Would you rather die , then , and cause Maximilian ’ s death ? ” “ Oh , ” repeated the young girl , almost bewildered , “ can I not leave the house ? —can I not escape ? ” “ Valentine , the hand which now threatens you will pursue you everywhere ; your servants will be seduced with gold , and death will be offered to you disguised in every shape .
Though alone against all and with a wound in his thigh , Bicarat wished to hold out ; but Jussac , who had risen upon his elbow , cried out to him to yield .
Benedetto , if still living , will become the instrument of divine retribution in some way or other , and then be duly punished in his turn .
What is there more astonishing in all that I have said to you than in what you have told me ? ” “ No ; what I think astonishing is that you should expect my coming. ” “ And yet that is the most simple thing in the world , my dear sister .
The cut of his clothes would have made him pass for an elegant man , if those clothes had not been torn to shreds ; still they did not show signs of wear , and the fine cloth , beneath the careful hands of the prisoner , soon recovered its gloss in the parts which were still perfect , for the wearer tried his best to make it assume the appearance of a new coat .
“ And what treatment do you adopt for this singular complaint ? ” “ A very simple one , ” said Valentine .
Madame Danglars ( who , although past the first bloom of youth , was still strikingly handsome ) was now seated at the piano , a most elaborate piece of cabinet and inlaid work , while Lucien Debray , standing before a small work-table , was turning over the pages of an album .
“ To your Eminence ! ” murmured Bonacieux , rolling his eyes round in astonishment .
Oh , my God , I have suffered enough surely !
As to the second vessel , we will tell hereafter whom it carried , and how it set sail .
Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort , much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements .
“ Yes , I. ” “ And why _you ? _ ” “ Because I alone know— ” “ What ? ” “ That he is far from being , or rather having been , so guilty toward you as he appears. ” “ Indeed ! ” said Milady , in an anxious tone ; “ explain yourself , for I really can not tell what you mean. ” And she looked at D ’ Artagnan , who embraced her tenderly , with eyes which seemed to burn themselves away .
Bernouin shut the door and went away .
Albert took the letter , opened , and read it , then looked round for Bertuccio , but he was gone .
Dantès had carefully noted the general appearance of the shore , and , instead of landing at the usual place , he dropped anchor in the little creek .
Such as were only beautiful gave their beauty , whence , without doubt , comes the proverb , “ The most beautiful girl in the world can only give what she has. ” Such as were rich gave in addition a part of their money ; and a vast number of heroes of that gallant period may be cited who would neither have won their spurs in the first place , nor their battles afterward , without the purse , more or less furnished , which their mistress fastened to the saddle bow .
Thank God !
“ I am ready to accompany you , sir , ” said Maximilian .
“ In Madame de Villefort ’ s room ? ” he murmured and slowly returned , with one hand wiping his forehead , and with the other supporting himself against the wall .
They then embraced each other like two brothers , and each wrapping himself in his cloak they soon passed into that kindly sleep of youth which is the prerogative of birds , flowers and infants .
The delighted builder then offered his services in providing a suitable crew for the little vessel , but this Dantès declined with many thanks , saying he was accustomed to cruise about quite alone , and his principal pleasure consisted in managing his yacht himself ; the only thing the builder could oblige him in would be to contrive a sort of secret closet in the cabin at his bed ’ s head , the closet to contain three divisions , so constructed as to be concealed from all but himself .
1.E.4 .
“ Most likely , ” replied Vampa coolly .
Come , let us speak of your little affairs .
“ Luigi took her arm beneath his own , and led her to the door of the grotto .
“ No , ” returned she , “ but I feel some emotion on seeing , for the first time , the man without whose intervention we should have been in tears and desolation .
I staked Grimaud , the silent Grimaud , divided into ten portions. ” “ Well , what next ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , laughing in spite of himself .
This affair made a great noise .
“ Your mother ? ” he said .
This was an awkward and unpleasant thing to have to report to those who were waiting .
“ Let us sit down. ” Villefort fell , rather than seated himself .
“ Here is what I am looking for , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ but alas !
It was fourteen years , day for day , since Dantès ’ arrest .
Indeed , madame , you believe me too credulous ! ” “ Confess that it is for the sake of making me talk that you invent this story and create this personage. ” “ I invent nothing , madame ; I create nothing .
If I am a prisoner , what crime have I committed ? ” “ You are here in the apartment destined for you , madame .
The substitution was made so carefully that my spies , if I had any , could have no suspicion of it .
“ How I have searched for him , ” replied Villefort , wringing his hands ; “ how I have called him in my long sleepless nights ; how I have longed for royal wealth to purchase a million of secrets from a million of men , and to find mine among them !
Still , marquise , it has been so with other usurpers—Cromwell , for instance , who was not half so bad as Napoleon , had his partisans and advocates. ” “ Do you know , Villefort , that you are talking in a most dreadfully revolutionary strain ?
“ No , ” replied the young man .
If Beauchamp be disposed to retract , you ought at least to give him the opportunity of doing it of his own free will , —the satisfaction to you will be the same .
This is recent news , sir , ” continued she , “ and I thank you for having made such haste to bring it to me ; without this letter I should not have heard till to-morrow , perhaps after to-morrow—the last of all Paris. ” “ Madame , ” said Raoul , “ the Louvre is but the second palace this news has reached ; it is as yet unknown to all , and I had sworn to the Count de Guiche to remit this letter to your majesty before even I should embrace my guardian. ” “ Your guardian !
“ Keep back , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Crushed and impoverished by taxation—imposed by Mazarin , whose avarice impelled him to grind them down to the very dust—the people , as the Advocate-General Talon described it , had nothing left to them except their souls ; and as those could not be sold by auction , they began to murmur .
“ Impossible. ” “ They appear to be numerous. ” “ Then ’ tis something else. ” “ Another horse ! ” said Porthos .
He was right ; at the end of some seconds two sharp taps were heard inside .
If he comes to France will you accord him hospitality ?
In recalling all he had been through , he foresaw all that Raoul might suffer ; and the expression of the deep and tender compassion which throbbed in his heart was pictured in the moist eye with which he gazed on the young man .
His praises increased Raoul ’ s friendship twofold .
How ghastly pale he is ! ” “ Oh , he is always as colorless as you now see him , ” said Franz .
Chapter IV .
He then returned to the captain , said a few words to him , and as if from that moment the vessel was under his command , he ordered a maneuver which the crew executed immediately .
Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort , much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements .
Do not forget that I have been five years in the Bastile and that no medium of viewing things is so deceptive as the grating of a prison. ” “ Ah , Monsieur de Rochefort !
Lord de Winter , on quitting D ’ Artagnan , gave him his sister ’ s address .
Madame Danglars then concluded that the young girl had been overcome with the terrible excitement of the evening , and had gone to bed and to sleep .
What men call the chances of fate—namely , ruin , change , circumstances—I have fully anticipated , and if any of these should overtake me , yet it will not overwhelm me .
We must cut off our hair , that the populace may not insult us .
I will set before him the example of Madame de Morcerf and her son. ” “ What example ? ” “ They gave all their fortune to the hospitals. ” “ What fortune ? ” “ Their own—M .
‘ Yes , monsieur , the one with which I gather my fruit. ’ ‘ Lend it to us , and go into your house again ; there is a crown for the annoyance we have caused you .
Leave your hold , then , I beg of you , and let me go where my business calls me. ” “ Monsieur , ” said Athos , letting him go , “ you are not polite ; it is easy to perceive that you come from a distance. ” D ’ Artagnan had already strode down three or four stairs , but at Athos ’ s last remark he stopped short .
As to his title and fortune—— ” “ As to that , madame , I have made over to him the estate of Bragelonne , my inheritance , which will give him ten thousand francs a year and the title of vicomte. ” “ Upon my soul , monsieur , ” said the duchess , “ you are a true nobleman !
At the denunciating sound , the monks would be rendered aware that temptation was besieging a brother , and all the community would go to prayers .
“ It is this , sir , ” said the king , angrily , “ that General Cromwell has reached Newcastle ; that you knew it and I was not informed of it ; that the enemy have left the town and are now closing the passages of the Tyne against us ; that our sentinels have seen this movement and I have been left unacquainted with it ; that , by an infamous treaty you have sold me for two hundred thousand pounds to Parliament .
Only tell us where we shall find a house at which we can demand aid and a village from which we can fetch a priest. ” “ Thank you , and God reward you !
Yes , dead , alas !
“ She goes into England , ” said Athos .
“ What man is that ?
“ Indeed he does , and in a most lavish manner , I can assure you. ” “ I must try and persuade M. Danglars to invite him to a ball or dinner , or something of the sort , that he may be compelled to ask us in return. ” “ What , ” said Debray , laughing ; “ do you really mean you would go to his house ? ” “ Why not ?
THE THREE PRESENTS OF D ’ ARTAGNAN THE ELDER Chapter II .
“ Well , ” asked he , “ what now ?
is treated at the court of France. ” “ Monsieur Aramis is not an officer ? ” asked the queen of Lord de Winter .
But Grimaud ’ s ingenuity was more prolific than his speech , and therefore at the first halt he sold his steed and with the money obtained from the purchase took post horses .
“ We did not see her , monseigneur , ” said Athos .
But what is going on in this accursed Paris ? ” “ What is going on , my lord ?
Treat her as one of your sisters .
“ My faith ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ you are well named , gentlemen ; and my adventure , if it should make any noise , will prove at least that your union is not founded upon contrasts. ” In the meantime , Porthos had come up , waved his hand to Athos , and then turning toward D ’ Artagnan , stood quite astonished .
“ I am going down there to pronounce the sentence of death against a murderer .
God be praised !
But the count did not appear to suspect that there could be the slightest connection between Lucien ’ s visit and the curiosity of the baroness .
If I am not saved I shall be avenged. ” “ You are not a woman , ” said Athos , coldly and sternly .
Such was the picturesque costume of the person who rang at the gate , and demanded if it was not at No .
Athos , Aramis , and D ’ Artagnan surrounded Bicarat , and required him to surrender .
The city , notwithstanding the incredible perseverance of its mayor , had attempted a sort of mutiny for a surrender ; the mayor had hanged the mutineers .
The Hotel de Vendome was not less guarded than the Hotel de Bouillon , and presented as warlike an appearance .
Her secret had each time been repressed when she was about to reveal it , by the sad conviction that it would be useless to do so ; for , were it once discovered by her father and mother , all would be lost .
Then , seeing the young man was about to relapse into melancholy , “ Let us go out , Albert , ” said he ; “ a ride in the wood in the phaeton , or on horseback , will refresh you ; we will then return to breakfast , and you shall attend to your affairs , and I to mine. ” “ Willingly , ” said Albert ; “ but let us walk .
thou again !
Everyone must live. ” “ Certainly ; go on. ” “ I loved my brother tenderly , as I told your excellency , and I resolved not to send the money , but to take it to him myself .
“ Sure of what ? ” “ That the owner of the horse was Lord Ruthven himself. ” “ What Lord Ruthven do you mean ? ” “ Why , our Lord Ruthven—the Vampire of the Salle Argentina ! ” “ Is it possible ? ” exclaimed the countess ; “ is he here in Paris ? ” “ To be sure , —why not ? ” “ And you visit him ? —meet him at your own house and elsewhere ? ” “ I assure you he is my most intimate friend , and M. de Château-Renaud has also the honor of his acquaintance. ” “ But why are you so sure of his being the winner of the Jockey Club prize ? ” “ Was not the winning horse entered by the name of Vampa ? ” “ What of that ? ” “ Why , do you not recollect the name of the celebrated bandit by whom I was made prisoner ? ” “ Oh , yes. ” “ And from whose hands the count extricated me in so wonderful a manner ? ” “ To be sure , I remember it all now. ” “ He called himself Vampa .
He shuddered , and rubbed his eyes as though awaking from a dream .
Cucumetto seemed to yield to his friend ’ s entreaties , and bade him find a shepherd to send to Rita ’ s father at Frosinone .
Bonacieux entered .
M. Danglars was disagreeable , certainly , but I know how much you care for his ill-humor .
Dantès recoiled from the idea of so infamous a death , and passed suddenly from despair to an ardent desire for life and liberty .
The thieves had already approached Andrea , some screaming , _ “ La savate—La savate ! ” _26 a cruel operation , which consists in cuffing a comrade who may have fallen into disgrace , not with an old shoe , but with an iron-heeled one .
Unless I die , I shall always be what I am , and therefore it is that I utter the things you have never heard , even from the mouths of kings—for kings have need , and other persons have fear of you .
I speak to you when I can catch you .
Arriving there , the young woman seemed to hesitate , as she had before done in the Rue Vaugirard .
Once past the frontier , Andrea proposed making money of his diamonds ; and by uniting the proceeds to ten bank-notes he always carried about with him in case of accident , he would then find himself possessor of about 50,000 livres , which he philosophically considered as no very deplorable condition after all .
But at the first words he uttered the comte roused himself from the kind of lethargy in which he had sunk .
“ Ah !
“ To questions frankly put , ” said he , “ a straightforward answer should be given .
Now , supposing I am deceived , supposing this man has not been unhappy enough to merit happiness .
I must , however , do him the justice to add that he assured me if ever he had regretted the repugnance he felt to such a step it was on this occasion , because he thought the projected union would be a happy and suitable one .
Athos was calm and grave , but Aramis was furious ; the sight of such royal misery exasperated him and his eyes examined every new trace of poverty that presented itself .
“ My arm and my life belong to you , like my love. ” “ Then , ” said Milady , “ since you are as generous as you are loving— ” She stopped .
“ Here I am. ” “ Wait till I assure myself that nobody hears us. ” “ Why all these precautions ? ” “ You shall know. ” Milady arose , went to the door , opened it , looked in the corridor , and then returned and seated herself close to Mme .
They found Raoul near his tent , reclining on a truss of hay , of which his horse stole some mouthfuls ; the young man ’ s eyes were red and he seemed dejected .
I will consent to share this dreadful secret with you , but I will not allow shame and remorse to grow and increase in my conscience , as crime and misery will in your house. ” “ Then you abandon me , doctor ? ” “ Yes , for I can follow you no farther , and I only stop at the foot of the scaffold .
“ What time is it , then ? ” “ Eh !
“ For what reason is all this fume and fury ? ” asked Athos .
Athos , according to his system , neither encouraged nor dissuaded him .
And the troop continued their route .
The coadjutor proceeded onward to the quay by way of the Rue de la Monnaie ; there he found groups of bourgeois clad in black cloaks or gray , according as they belonged to the upper or lower bourgeoisie .
Since my misfortunes I have been subject to faintnesses , which seize me all at once , and I have just felt a cold shiver .
“ Well , ” said the coadjutor , on seeing him , “ you are in disgrace , then , abbé ? ” This was the orthodox phrase .
“ The moment is at hand , ” he said .
“ Choose Tyburn , madame .
He only changed his sword hand , and fought with his left hand .
“ Well , ” said he , “ I will swim on until I am worn out , or the cramp seizes me , and then I shall sink ; ” and he struck out with the energy of despair .
“ The devil thou dost not !
It was impossible to wait longer , his temples throbbed violently , his eyes were growing dim ; he passed one leg over the wall , and in a moment leaped down on the other side .
Oh , if I were only there to help him ! ” Suddenly another idea took possession of his mind , so used to misfortune , that it was scarcely capable of hope—the idea that the noise was made by workmen the governor had ordered to repair the neighboring dungeon .
Mesdemoiselles Noblet , Julia , and Leroux executed the customary pirouettes ; Robert duly challenged the Prince of Granada ; and the royal father of the princess Isabella , taking his daughter by the hand , swept round the stage with majestic strides , the better to display the rich folds of his velvet robe and mantle .
“ He pretends the air of the Faubourg Saint-Honoré is not good for me. ” “ Indeed ? ” said Morrel ; “ in that M. Noirtier may be right ; you have not seemed to be well for the last fortnight. ” “ Not very , ” said Valentine .
As to his voice , prayers , sobs , and imprecations had changed it so that at times it was of a singularly penetrating sweetness , and at others rough and almost hoarse .
There fermented in that sublimated brain plans so vast , projects so tumultuous , that there remained no room for any capricious or material love—that sentiment which is fed by leisure and grows with corruption .
“ Why , really I know no one , ” said the major .
On the contrary , be off , and quickly .
“ The name of your ship ? ” inquired D ’ Artagnan .
And at the very moment when the wheels of that coach crossed the gateway a report was heard , and a thick smoke escaped through one of the panes of the window , which was broken by the explosion .
This evening , you said. ” “ Well , this evening will come , thank God !
And according to his custom D ’ Artagnan glanced rapidly around and remarked that Mazarin had a sealed letter before him .
The first moments of her captivity were terrible ; a few convulsions of rage which she could not suppress paid her debt of feminine weakness to nature .
“ Yes , sir. ” he said .
The first time I saw him he appeared to me like an old lieutenant who had grown mouldy under his epaulets .
“ If M. Danglars will not fight with me , I will kill his son-in-law ; Cavalcanti will certainly fight. ” The servant announced the young man ; but the banker , recollecting what had transpired the day before , did not wish him admitted .
The cardinal looked , then , with great impatience for the news from England which would announce to him that Buckingham would not come .
I hate this life of the fashionable world , always ordered , measured , ruled , like our music-paper .
That voice also was known to Grimaud .
Does Madame de Morcerf dance ? ” “ Never ; you can talk to her , she so delights in your conversation. ” “ Indeed ? ” 30283m “ Yes , truly ; and I assure you .
The host called the stable-boy , and ordered him to saddle _Le Blanc_ then he awoke his son , a child of seven years , whom he ordered to ride before the gentleman and bring back the horse .
Dandré is not a man to be accused of treason !
I would not go at all , ” said Aramis .
Bonacieux had remained insensible to vulgar seductions ; but at this period the title of gentleman had great influence with the citizen class , and D ’ Artagnan was a gentleman .
However , the struggle still continued , and it was dreadful to witness .
The young girl was very pensive , but seeing Luigi so cheerful , she on her part assumed a smiling air , which was natural to her when she was not excited or in a passion .
We were all so happy in the Chateau de Pierrefonds ! ” And without any other complaint , passive and obedient , either from true devotion to his master or from the example set by Blaisois , Mousqueton leaped into the sea headforemost .
Aramis , blushing in spite of himself , took the letter , which was in a large , coarse hand and not particular for its orthography .
“ I know nothing .
“ Oh , you beautiful , good little creature ! ” said Milady .
“ It seems to me rather reassuring than otherwise ; men who did not wish to be seen would not light a fire. ” “ Oh , that goes for nothing , ” said Gaetano .
I felt his blood gush over my face , but I was intoxicated , I was delirious , and the blood refreshed , instead of burning me .
“ You are brave , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” continued his Eminence ; “ you are prudent , which is still better .
The Island of Monte Cristo Thus , at length , by one of the unexpected strokes of fortune which sometimes befall those who have for a long time been the victims of an evil destiny , Dantès was about to secure the opportunity he wished for , by simple and natural means , and land on the island without incurring any suspicion .
Besides , in accepting it , ” she added , in a voice full of emotion , “ you render me a much greater service than you imagine. ” “ This woman is full of mysteries , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan to himself .
The sergeant of this company , a veteran of the Spanish wars , had recognized Porthos , his old companion , and very soon all those who served under him were placed in possession of startling facts concerning the honor of the ancient musketeers of Tréville .
I have brought him up .
After numberless windings , Dantès saw a door with an iron wicket .
I never heard you mentioned , and I did not dare inquire for you .
“ What ’ s the matter ?
“ In the examination which precedes ordination , a thesis is always a requisite. ” “ Ordination ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , who could not believe what the hostess and Bazin had successively told him ; and he gazed , half stupefied , upon the three persons before him .
He will see us if we go out. ” “ Then you must come up into my room. ” “ Ah , ” said Mme .
Old Pastrini , our former acquaintance , received the traveller at the door , hat in hand .
There they are .
“ Sir monk , ” said De Guiche , “ confess well that brave man ; and be not concerned for your expenses or for those of your mule ; all is paid. ” “ Thanks , monsieur , ” said the monk , with one of those smiles that made Bragelonne shudder .
“ Sir , you will perhaps think that I am in a great hurry to leave you when I have only just arrived , but—— ” “ Have you only two days of leave , Raoul ? ” “ On the contrary , sir , I have ten ; nor is it to the camp I wish to go. ” “ Where , then ? ” said Athos , smiling , “ if it be not a secret .
As for the ladies , it is needless to say that while they coveted the millions , they thought they did not need them for themselves , as they were beautiful enough without them .
He answered the appeal of his friend by an affirmative nod of the head .
As he gained the top of the Rue Guénegaud , he saw two persons coming out of the Rue Dauphine whose appearance very much struck him .
“ Are we not going ? ” said he , after this embarrassing silence .
The chancellor made a profound reverence .
At this moment La Ramee , after the interview we have described with the cardinal , entered the room .
‘ You positively recognize M. de Morcerf as the officer , Fernand Mondego ? ’ — ‘ Indeed I do ! ’ cried Haydée .
“ His eminence can not see the letter without the bearer of it , ” replied the young man ; “ but to convince you that I am really the bearer of a letter , see , here it is ; and kindly add , ” continued he , “ that I am not a simple messenger , but an envoy extraordinary. ” Bernouin re-entered the cabinet , returning in a few seconds .
How do I know that this is not his Eminence who has honored you with the commission to procure my head ?
At these words a visible emotion was expressed on the beautiful countenance and calm features of Athos .
As he said , he was ready to go to the end of the world to seek her ; but the world , being round , has many ends , so that he did not know which way to turn .
Who employed you to assassinate me ? ” “ A woman whom I don ’ t know , but who is called Milady. ” “ But if you don ’ t know this woman , how do you know her name ? ” “ My comrade knows her , and called her so .
“ This letter !
Then D ’ Artagnan rushed out of his hiding place and arrived in time to see Bazin turn down the Rue de la Juiverie and enter , in the Rue de la Calandre , a respectable looking house ; and this D ’ Artagnan felt no doubt was the habitation of the worthy beadle .
“ Fairfax , ” answered a laughing voice , the silvery tone of which betrayed it as that of a woman , “ is not such a fool as to be here. ” A loud laugh followed these words , pronounced with that boldness which women draw from their own weakness—a weakness which removes them beyond the power of vengeance .
Why , you must have lost your senses. ” “ Whether I am in my senses or not , ” answered Franz , “ that is the way I feel. ” “ Listen to me , Franz , ” said Albert ; “ I am glad that the occasion has presented itself for saying this to you , for I have noticed how cold you are in your bearing towards the count , while he , on the other hand , has always been courtesy itself to us .
Monsieur de Lillebonne , lead my horse by the bridle , if you please. ” As he spoke he dismounted , gave the bridle of his horse to the musketeer and placing himself by the side of the prisoner said , in a voice perfectly composed , “ To the Palais Royal , at full trot. ” The carriage drove on and D ’ Artagnan , availing himself of the darkness in the archway under which they were passing , threw himself into the arms of the prisoner .
Well , I would secure for myself a fortune independent of him , even if I acquired it by placing my interests in hands unknown to him. ” Madame Danglars blushed , in spite of all her efforts .
Fortunately we have the great cardinal ; his vigilant eye watches over and penetrates to the bottom of the heart. ” Bonacieux was repeating , word for word , a sentence which he had heard from the Comte de Rochefort ; but the poor wife , who had reckoned on her husband , and who , in that hope , had answered for him to the queen , did not tremble the less , both at the danger into which she had nearly cast herself and at the helpless state to which she was reduced .
The Smugglers Dantès had not been a day on board before he had a very clear idea of the men with whom his lot had been cast .
“ Well , when I was a clerk , Morcerf was a mere fisherman. ” “ And then he was called—— ” “ Fernand. ” “ Only Fernand ? ” “ Fernand Mondego. ” “ You are sure ? ” “ _Pardieu ! _ I have bought enough fish of him to know his name. ” “ Then , why did you think of giving your daughter to him ? ” “ Because Fernand and Danglars , being both parvenus , both having become noble , both rich , are about equal in worth , excepting that there have been certain things mentioned of him that were never said of me. ” “ What ? ” “ Oh , nothing ! ” “ Ah , yes ; what you tell me recalls to mind something about the name of Fernand Mondego .
The old man appeared to be listening attentively and as affectionately as his infirmities would allow to the Abbé Busoni , who looked cold and calm , as usual .
D ’ Artagnan knows that terrible secret which she has sworn no one shall know without dying .
The boat that now arrived , assured by the answering signal that all was well , soon came in sight , white and silent as a phantom , and cast anchor within a cable ’ s length of shore .
Five or six minutes elapsed .
Come , come , tell me ; I am dying with curiosity and uneasiness ! ” “ Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , getting rid of his female garments , and appearing in his shirt , “ prepare yourself to hear an incredible , an unheard-of story. ” “ Well , but put on this dressing gown first , ” said the Musketeer to his friend .
Villefort and Franz returned to the Faubourg Saint-Honoré .
“ Come , ” he said , stretching out his hand to D ’ Artagnan , “ come , don ’ t be sullen , my dear son , for I have said all this to you , if not in the tone , at least with the feelings of a father .
de Villefort ! —What do you mean ? ” “ I mean that M. de Nargonne , your first husband , being neither a philosopher nor a banker , or perhaps being both , and seeing there was nothing to be got out of a king ’ s attorney , died of grief or anger at finding , after an absence of nine months , that you had been _enceinte_ six .
“ Sir , ” replied Comminges , “ it seems that it is impossible. ” “ Monsieur de Comminges , ” said Athos , “ I have been a soldier all my life and I know the force of orders ; but outside your orders there is a service you can render me. ” “ I will do it with all my heart , ” said Comminges ; “ for I know who you are and what service you once performed for her majesty ; I know , too , how dear to you is the young man who came so valiantly to my aid when that old rogue of a Broussel was arrested .
He saluted the count with the air of a man who is aware of the rank of his guest ; then , after having led Monte Cristo around the little garden , he returned to the house .
yes , ” returned the count , “ I know who he is , gentlemen ; will you return to the salon ?
But M. de la Trémouille—already prejudiced by his esquire , whose relative , as we already know , Bernajoux was—replied that it was neither for M. de Tréville nor the Musketeers to complain , but , on the contrary , for him , whose people the Musketeers had assaulted and whose hôtel they had endeavored to burn .
The elder prisoner was one of those persons whose conversation , like that of all who have experienced many trials , contained many useful and important hints as well as sound information ; but it was never egotistical , for the unfortunate man never alluded to his own sorrows .
Morrel had to pay , within half an hour , 287,500 francs .
is it you , indeed ?
But where you go , I go. ” They then set off for Rueil .
“ Humph , ” said Morcerf , “ this is the second time you have refused to dine with my mother ; it is evident that you wish to avoid her. ” Monte Cristo started .
The other sufferer is sentenced to be _decapitato_ ; 4 and he , your excellency , is poor Peppino. ” “ The fact is , that you have inspired not only the pontifical government , but also the neighboring states , with such extreme fear , that they are glad of all opportunity of making an example. ” “ But Peppino did not even belong to my band ; he was merely a poor shepherd , whose only crime consisted in furnishing us with provisions. ” “ Which makes him your accomplice to all intents and purposes .
You gave your direction to no one but your postilion , yet I have your address , and in proof I am here the very instant you are going to sit at table .
Thus , in all their dreams , their wishes , and their conversations , Vampa saw himself the captain of a vessel , general of an army , or governor of a province .
Milady saw at a single glance all the painful feelings she inspired in Felton by dwelling on every detail of her recital ; but she would not spare him a single pang .
Every night the count had given him news , which was the next morning confirmed by Noirtier .
Madame de Villefort , however , reassured by the silence , which was alone disturbed by the regular breathing of Valentine , again extended her hand , and half hidden by the curtains succeeded in emptying the contents of the phial into the glass .
“ Good heavens !
Do you still wish to do so ? ” “ I have no wishes , count ; only I fancy I could pass the time less painfully here than anywhere else. ” “ So much the better , for I must leave you ; but I carry your word with me , do I not ? ” “ Ah , count , I shall forget it. ” “ No , you will not forget it , because you are a man of honor , Morrel , because you have taken an oath , and are about to do so again. ” “ Oh , count , have pity upon me .
I wish every respect to be shown the count , although he is the prisoner of her majesty the queen. ” “ My lord , ” answered Comminges , “ he begs to be taken to the place where Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is confined—that is , in the hunting lodge , opposite the orangery. ” Mazarin thought for an instant .
Pray observe , that I too much respect the laws of hospitality to ask your name or title .
D ’ Artagnan knew his part well ; he was aware that opportunity has a forelock only for him who will take it and he was not a man to let it go by him without seizing it .
“ These names are too numerous for me to remember them all , and I will content myself with the first , ” said the queen , graciously .
When this formality was ended , as her duties called her to chapel , she left the two young women alone .
Mademoiselle was walking in the shade of the garden , and your son disappeared in pursuit of the peacock. ” “ And I caught it , mamma , don ’ t you remember ? ” interposed Edward , “ and I pulled three such beautiful feathers out of his tail. ” “ You , madame , remained under the arbor ; do you not remember , that while you were seated on a stone bench , and while , as I told you , Mademoiselle de Villefort and your young son were absent , you conversed for a considerable time with somebody ? ” “ Yes , in truth , yes , ” answered the young lady , turning very red , “ I do remember conversing with a person wrapped in a long woollen mantle ; he was a medical man , I think. ” “ Precisely so , madame ; this man was myself ; for a fortnight I had been at that hotel , during which period I had cured my valet de chambre of a fever , and my landlord of the jaundice , so that I really acquired a reputation as a skilful physician .
oh , my king ! —and that being led to the scaffold he had been saved by an indignant people. ” “ Just so madame , ” replied Chatillon , in so low a voice that though the two friends were listening eagerly they could hardly hear this affirmation .
“ I wished to know the detail , ” said she , “ because , having many relatives in business , I was almost sure of obtaining things at a hundred per cent less than you would pay yourself. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said Porthos , “ that is what you meant to say ! ” “ Yes , dear Monsieur Porthos .
The clock struck half-past eight , and still another half-hour was passed in waiting , while Morrel walked to and fro , and gazed more and more frequently through the opening .
She only felt the pulsation in her own fingers , and withdrew her hand with a shudder .
“ Morrel , ” said the count to him at length , “ do you repent having followed me ? ” “ No , count ; but to leave Paris—— ” “ If I thought happiness might await you in Paris , Morrel , I would have left you there. ” “ Valentine reposes within the walls of Paris , and to leave Paris is like losing her a second time. ” “ Maximilian , ” said the count , “ the friends that we have lost do not repose in the bosom of the earth , but are buried deep in our hearts , and it has been thus ordained that we may always be accompanied by them .
Haydée had three French maids , and one who was a Greek .
Yes , ” he continued , sadly shaking his head , “ Yes , it is as you said , misfortune , indeed , has overtaken us .
He was , however , the same Cocles , good , patient , devoted , but inflexible on the subject of arithmetic , the only point on which he would have stood firm against the world , even against M. Morrel ; and strong in the multiplication-table , which he had at his fingers ’ ends , no matter what scheme or what trap was laid to catch him .
“ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo “ you were a major ; that is the title the French give to the post which you filled in Italy. ” “ Very good , ” said the major , “ I do not demand more , you understand—— ” “ Your visit here today is not of your own suggestion , is it ? ” said Monte Cristo .
The old man listened attentively , making a sign only that it was all so ; and then , when D ’ Artagnan had ended , he shook his head with an air that announced nothing good .
We shall try to persuade the great d ’ Aguesseau,11 M. de Villefort , to come , but have not much hope of seeing him. ” “ ‘ Never despair of anything , ’ says the proverb. ” “ Do you dance , count ? ” “ I dance ? ” “ Yes , you ; it would not be astonishing. ” “ That is very well before one is over forty .
Bonacieux opened the door of a closet , which was entirely dark , and led D ’ Artagnan into it .
“ Now , ” said Gondy , “ there is a communion between us .
“ Ah , ah ! ” said he , “ she is asleep ; that ’ s well .
Then , having blown out the lights , the two fugitives , looking and listening eagerly , with outstretched necks , opened the door of a dressing-room which led by a side staircase down to the yard , —Eugénie going first , and holding with one arm the portmanteau , which by the opposite handle Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly scarcely raised with both hands .
A dull and dismal light was shed over the bedclothes and curtains surrounding the young girl .
“ You saw the person ? ” repeated the young girl .
“ Oh , I wish it you with all my heart ! ” added Caderousse with his hoarse laugh .
By degrees Athos gave himself up to the charms of his reverie in the proximity of youth , so pure , so fresh .
Raoul had desired to be awakened should Grimaud arrive , but Grimaud did not arrive .
This young boarder of yours , has she tried to fly ? ” “ No , that is true ; but she—that is another thing ; I believe she is detained in France by some love affair. ” “ Ah , ” said Milady , with a sigh , “ if she loves she is not altogether wretched. ” “ Then , ” said the abbess , looking at Milady with increasing interest , “ I behold another poor victim ? ” “ Alas , yes , ” said Milady .
God will respect his profession , and not give the devil the wicked delight of sending him a priest. ” A shout of laughter followed this brutal jest .
“ It does , ” replied the abbé ; “ with the addition of an equal division of that part intended for the elder Dantès , which I believe myself at liberty to divide equally with the four survivors. ” “ And why among us four ? ” inquired Caderousse .
“ This time , in spite of my terrors , in spite of my agony , I began to feel a devouring hunger .
The valet re-entered .
“ Who ?
Yet perhaps if I had found you humble and penitent , I might have prevented Benedetto from killing you ; but I found you proud and blood-thirsty , and I left you in the hands of God. ” “ I do not believe there is a God , ” howled Caderousse ; “ you do not believe it ; you lie—you lie ! ” “ Silence , ” said the abbé ; “ you will force the last drop of blood from your veins .
“ Well , my boys , ” said the brigadier , “ the brigand must really have escaped early this morning ; but we will send to the Villers-Coterets and Noyon roads , and search the forest , when we shall catch him , no doubt. ” The honorable functionary had scarcely expressed himself thus , in that intonation which is peculiar to brigadiers of the gendarmerie , when a loud scream , accompanied by the violent ringing of a bell , resounded through the court of the hotel .
Arriving unexpectedly in sight of the Isle of Ré with ninety vessels and nearly twenty thousand men , he had surprised the Comte de Toiras , who commanded for the king in the Isle , and he had , after a bloody conflict , effected his landing .
“ What is going on ? ” asked Franz of the count ; for , as all the talk was in the Roman dialect , he had not perfectly understood it .
“ ‘ That is very annoying , ’ said the brigadier ; for the man we are looking for is the chief. ’ “ ‘ Cucumetto ? ’ cried Luigi and Teresa at the same moment .
Come , my dear Bazin , tell me where he is. ” “ Didn ’ t you hear me tell you , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , that I don ’ t know where he is ? ” “ Yes , certainly ; but to that I answer that it is impossible. ” “ It is , nevertheless , the truth , monsieur—the pure truth , the truth of the good God. ” D ’ Artagnan saw clearly that he would get nothing out of this man , who was evidently telling a falsehood in his pretended ignorance of the abode of Aramis , but whose lies were bold and decided .
As to King Charles , the question must be viewed differently ; in receiving and aiding him , France will censure the acts of the English nation , and thus so essentially harm England , and especially the well-being of the government , that such a proceeding will be equivalent to pronounced hostilities. ” At this moment Mazarin became very uneasy at the turn which the letter was taking and paused to glance under his eyes at the young man .
The first notary handed over each note , as he examined it , to his colleague .
Bonacieux , sorrowfully .
“ I was seeking the gentleman to whom this horse belongs—an officer , brave and handsome as a youthful Caesar ; ” then , pretending to see Raoul for the first time : “ Ah !
Étienne soon returned from his errand .
While walking near the wood of Monsieur le Prince , I laid a few snares in the runs ; and while reclining on the banks of his Highness ’ s pieces of water , I slipped a few lines into his fish ponds .
“ Oh , _pardieu_ , less than nothing , ” said Aramis ; “ a charming little seamstress , whom I love dearly and from whose hand I requested a few lines as a sort of keepsake. ” “ The duvil ! ” said the Swiss , “ if she is as great a lady as her writing is large , you are a lucky fellow , gomrade ! ” Aramis read the letter , and passed it to Athos .
Danglars , too , had recognized the bandit , whose existence he would not believe when Albert de Morcerf mentioned him in Paris ; and not only did he recognize him , but the cell in which Albert had been confined , and which was probably kept for the accommodation of strangers .
“ These narratives were frequently the theme of conversation between Luigi and Teresa .
How many are there ? ” “ Two .
However difficult it might be , or rather as he pretended it was , to astonish our young traveler , this pastime really astonished him .
Pardon ! ” cried Felton , “ oh , pardon ! ” Milady read in his eyes _love !
He seemed to be quite overcome .
If there is a sentinel within the apartment , kill him without hesitation .
The donjon of Vincennes was considered very unhealthy and Madame de Rambouillet had said that the room in which the Marechal Ornano and the Grand Prior de Vendome had died was worth its weight in arsenic—a bon mot which had great success .
That was still the situation of affairs up to the early days of February .
3 , 1627 “ It is by my order and for the good of the state that the bearer of this has done what he has done .
I can not calmly say with you , ‘ Providence has struck the blow ; ’ but I must discover who pursues me with this hatred , and when I have found him I shall kill him , or he will kill me .
He is a millionaire , and they have made him a baron , and now he is the Baron Danglars , with a fine residence in the Rue du Mont-Blanc , with ten horses in his stables , six footmen in his antechamber , and I know not how many millions in his strongbox. ” “ Ah ! ” said the abbé , in a peculiar tone , “ he is happy. ” “ Happy ?
Porthos !
For one moment the young man forgot his habitual respect—he threw himself on his father ’ s neck .
“ God has preserved us hitherto , God will preserve us still. ” “ Yes , we .
The young man obeyed , mounted on the table , and , divining the wishes of his companion , placed his back securely against the wall and held out both hands .
Valentine ?
“ M .
The Corsican Ogre Chapter 12 .
On the other hand , he was about to land , without any other escort than these men , on an island which had , indeed , a very religious name , but which did not seem to Franz likely to afford him much hospitality , thanks to the smugglers and bandits .
He opened at once his little eyes and his great mouth , to inhale better the joke his eminence deigned to address to him , and ended by a burst of laughter , so violent that his great limbs shook in hilarity as they would have done in an ague .
As to the left-hand one , he conscientiously repeated the same signals , which were finally transmitted to the Minister of the Interior .
Time was getting on , however , and Franz deemed it advisable to awaken Albert ; but at the moment he prepared to proceed to his chamber , his friend entered the room in perfect costume for the day .
On the evening of the day after the arrest of poor Bonacieux , as Athos had just left D ’ Artagnan to report at M. de Tréville ’ s , as nine o ’ clock had just struck , and as Planchet , who had not yet made the bed , was beginning his task , a knocking was heard at the street door .
This is the history of most men who have passed twenty years of age .
“ Remember that I never uttered a falsehood and am never deceived .
Explain yourself more clearly , I beg , sir. ” “ Oh , make yourself easy ! —I am not speaking riddles , and you will soon know what I mean .
They went on board and the captain instantly conducted them to the berth prepared for them—a cabin which was to serve for all purposes and for the whole party ; he then tried to slip away under pretext of giving orders to some one .
They never overtook the chimerical friend , yet Andrea frequently inquired of people on foot whom he passed and at the inns which were not yet closed , for a green cabriolet and bay horse ; and as there are a great many cabriolets to be seen on the road to the Low Countries , and as nine-tenths of them are green , the inquiries increased at every step .
“ Mademoiselle de Villefort , my step-daughter , ” said Madame de Villefort to Monte Cristo , leaning back on her sofa and motioning towards Valentine with her hand .
In turning the corner of the Rue Montmartre , in order to reach the Rue Tiquetonne and the Hotel de la Chevrette , where he had appointed Porthos to meet him , he saw at one of the windows of the hotel , that friend himself dressed in a sky-blue waistcoat , embroidered with silver , and gaping , till he showed every one of his white teeth ; whilst the people passing by admiringly gazed at this gentleman , so handsome and so rich , who seemed to weary of his riches and his greatness .
Finally , at Lilliers I lost all trace of her .
“ Planchet , sir. ” “ Lieutenant yesterday , ” said Aramis , “ captain to-day , colonel , doubtless , to-morrow ; in a fortnight the fellow will be marshal of France. ” “ Question him about the fight , ” said Athos .
The duke ran to the rampart and perceived on the other side of the ditch , three cavaliers with two riding horses .
Next day a hundred newspapers relate the fact , with the names of the victim and the murderer .
“ Yes , yes , father , tell me where it is , ” and he opened two or three cupboards .
“ A keeper ! ” reiterated the duke ; “ there was nothing wanting in my collection , except this gallows-bird .
It was a night of joy and terror , such as this man of stupendous emotions had already experienced twice or thrice in his lifetime .
I had gone on the quay to match a piece of mulberry cloth , when I met friend Danglars .
how he stares at him , the insolent dog !
I had no doubt he would return the following night .
“ Ah , indeed ? ” said d ’ Avrigny , struck with a sudden thought , “ has it occurred to you ” —Noirtier did not let him finish .
He thought that , beginning to be afraid , they had stayed behind , and he continued to advance .
I remember , just at his age , how deep in love I was with a Grecian statue which our good king , then Henry IV. , gave my father , insomuch that I was mad with grief when they told me that the story of Pygmalion was nothing but a fable. ” “ It is mere want of occupation .
“ Yes .
It was her first , and on what an occasion !
The rest of the night was employed by these cavaliers in traveling with the wonderful rapidity of former days .
However , the morning of the appointment , the young man had established himself in the small salon downstairs .
“ Sir monk , ” said he , “ whether he is now or has been an executioner , this unfortunate being is none the less a man .
‘ Well , then , a good journey to you , ’ said Caderousse .
Madame Danglars asked me for letters of recommendation for the _impresari_ ; I gave her a few lines for the director of the Valle Theatre , who is under some obligation to me .
And now let us see , young man , with your hand upon your conscience , how did all this come to pass ? ” D ’ Artagnan related the adventure of the preceding day in all its details ; how , not having been able to sleep for the joy he felt in the expectation of seeing his Majesty , he had gone to his three friends three hours before the hour of audience ; how they had gone together to the tennis court , and how , upon the fear he had manifested lest he receive a ball in the face , he had been jeered at by Bernajoux , who had nearly paid for his jeer with his life , and M. de la Trémouille , who had nothing to do with the matter , with the loss of his hôtel .
D ’ Artagnan himself was moved by them .
“ Here it is , ” said he .
Although it was impossible that Valentine should see him , hidden as he was , he thought he heard the shadow at the window call him ; his disturbed mind told him so .
Never was there an apartment at the same time more warlike and more elegant .
“ What would you have , my dear viscount ? ” said Monte Cristo , wiping his hands on the towel which Ali had brought him ; “ I must occupy my leisure moments in some way or other .
Scarcely had the door closed , when M. de Villefort sent to tell Valentine to be ready in the drawing-room in half an hour , as he expected the notary and M. d ’ Épinay and his witnesses .
At the same moment a well-known voice above him pronounced these words : “ Colonel , I want to speak to the people. ” Athos shuddered from head to foot .
“ Let us pretend not to notice that he is watching us. ” And spurring on he plunged into the labyrinth of streets which led to his hotel , situated near the Marais , for having for so long a time lived near the Place Royale , Lord de Winter naturally returned to lodge near his ancient dwelling .
Monsieur the Governor was all astonishment .
I know the world is a drawing-room , from which we must retire politely and honestly ; that is , with a bow , and our debts of honor paid. ” “ That is to the purpose .
Come back , sirs , back. ” The two youths looked at each other , and at this moment a pistol-shot and cries for help were heard .
“ Can we have destroyed them all , from the first to the last ? ” said Athos .
But are you well assured , sir ? ” “ Lying behind the tent of Lord Leven , I raised it and saw all , heard all ! ” “ And when is this to be consummated ? ” “ To-day—this morning ; so your majesty must perceive there is no time to lose ! ” “ To do what ?
But first barricade the first door well ; then we will follow yonder cavalier. ” The two friends set to work and crowded the space before the door with all the furniture in the room , as not only to make the passage impassable , but so to block the door that by no means could it open inward .
What could this treachery be ?
my lord the cardinal ! ” Mazarin thought that some one was going to assassinate him and he drew back , pushing his chair on the castors .
“ Take it , ” said she , “ and be accursed ! ” Athos took the paper , returned the pistol to his belt , approached the lamp to be assured that it was the paper , unfolded it , and read : “ Dec .
The _mandaïa_6 never fails , never trembles , never strikes thirty times ineffectually , like the soldier who beheaded the Count of Chalais , and to whose tender mercy Richelieu had doubtless recommended the sufferer .
“ It is well , sir , ” replied Villefort from below , — “ it is well ; have patience but one day longer ; what I have said I will do. ” Noirtier seemed to be calmed by these words , and turned his eyes with indifference to the other side .
40262m “ Until one of us dies , ” repeated Monte Cristo , moving his head slightly up and down .
Athos and Aramis suppressed as well as they could the disgust they felt in the presence of such coarseness and brutality .
Athos , still within the inclosure of the window , watched this scene with a smile of disdain on his lips .
It is not known whether it was the devil who gave way , or the monks who grew tired ; but within three months the penitent reappeared in the world with the reputation of being the most terrible _possessed_ that ever existed .
The young priest was condemned to ten years of imprisonment , and to be branded .
I am aware he is a furious royalist ; but , in spite of that , and of his being king ’ s attorney , he is a man like ourselves , and I fancy not a bad sort of one. ” “ Perhaps not , ” replied Danglars ; “ but I hear that he is ambitious , and that ’ s rather against him. ” “ Well , well , ” returned M. Morrel , “ we shall see .
With the Frenchman , the man who had followed him entered too ; the Frenchman knocked at the inner door , and entered the first room ; his shadow did the same .
we have so many worlds in the year of grace 1838. ” “ In the entire political world , of which you are one of the leaders. ” “ They say that it is quite fair , and that sowing so much red , you ought to reap a little blue. ” “ Come , come , that is not bad ! ” said Lucien .
What would you do , tell me , if your sister listened to such a proposition ? ” “ Mademoiselle , ” replied Morrel with a bitter smile , “ I am selfish—you have already said so—and as a selfish man I think not of what others would do in my situation , but of what I intend doing myself .
She would not be weary , thank God !
From that moment she watched all his actions , all his words , from the simplest glance of his eyes to his gestures—even to a breath that could be interpreted as a sigh .
On seeing the queen , the men stopped short , respectfully .
“ It is not Madame Bonacieux about whom I am anxious , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ but the queen , whom the king abandons , whom the cardinal persecutes , and who sees the heads of all her friends fall , one after the other. ” “ Why does she love what we hate most in the world , the Spaniards and the English ? ” “ Spain is her country , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ and it is very natural that she should love the Spanish , who are the children of the same soil as herself .
“ Olivain ! ” he exclaimed , “ what do I see below there ? ” A second scream , more piercing than the first , now sounded .
Thus , then , the young men made no attempt at resistance , but blindly and confidingly surrendered themselves into the care and custody of their conductors .
The captain glanced at him , but he had lifted the rum to his lips and was drinking it with so much composure , that suspicions , if the captain had any , died away .
“ That ’ s wise—not for the lackeys , ” resumed Aramis , “ but for the master—for the _masters_ , we may say .
Decidedly man is an ungrateful and egotistical animal .
In an instant D ’ Artagnan perceived that the best way in which he could act would be to go home and write Milady a long letter , in which he would confess to her that he and De Wardes were , up to the present moment absolutely the same , and that consequently he could not undertake , without committing suicide , to kill the Comte de Wardes .
No one had entered the house since I had left it .
Beppo told him he was going to take him to a villa a league from Rome ; the Frenchman assured him he would follow him to the end of the world .
The two nobles saluted each other politely , for if no friendship existed between them , there was at least esteem .
When the count entered the room the young man was carelessly stretched on a sofa , tapping his boot with the gold-headed cane which he held in his hand .
“ What has become of Monseigneur Athos ? ” asked he .
Porthos has , perhaps , sixty thousand francs income .
and you would be right , my friend ; for in losing him you would lose your barony , which you have in your grasp , to say nothing of the fact that , were he once out of this , Mazarin would have you hanged. ” “ Do you think so ? ” “ I am sure of it. ” “ Then I would kill him rather than let him go. ” “ And you would act rightly .
de Chevreuse—who , though exiled to Tours and believed to be in that city , had come to Paris , remained there five days , and outwitted the police—the king flew into a furious passion .
It was Rita ’ s father , who brought his daughter ’ s ransom in person .
Ah , I would give much to have five hundred louis , only. ” “ So would I , ” said Porthos , unwilling to be behind D ’ Artagnan in generosity ; “ I would give as much as a hundred pistoles. ” The two prisoners were at this point of their conversation when Comminges entered , preceded by a sergeant and two men , who brought supper in a basket with two handles , filled with basins and plates .
What prevents you from being so ? ” “ Oh , it will be too great a disappointment to my father if I do not marry Mademoiselle Danglars. ” “ Marry her then , ” said the count , with a significant shrug of the shoulders .
Don ’ t forget the signal : ‘ Jesus Seigneur ! ’ ” and he went out as he came in , whistling the self-same air .
Here I am back again , and we are going to be happy. ” “ Yes , yes , my boy , so we will—so we will , ” replied the old man ; “ but how shall we be happy ?
Penelon had , it would seem , made good use of his money , for he was newly clad .
“ And as , ” continued he , “ the duchess whom you saw at the church has estates near to those of my family , we mean to make the journey together .
“ I wished to inquire why you stopped at the Island of Elba ? ” “ I do not know , sir ; it was to fulfil the last instructions of Captain Leclere , who , when dying , gave me a packet for Marshal Bertrand. ” “ Then did you see him , Edmond ? ” “ Who ? ” “ The marshal. ” “ Yes. ” Morrel looked around him , and then , drawing Dantès on one side , he said suddenly— “ And how is the emperor ? ” “ Very well , as far as I could judge from the sight of him. ” “ You saw the emperor , then ? ” “ He entered the marshal ’ s apartment while I was there. ” “ And you spoke to him ? ” “ Why , it was he who spoke to me , sir , ” said Dantès , with a smile .
It appeared to her that the blast as it swept along disheveled her brow , as it bowed the branches of the trees and bore away their leaves .
Athos replied , always by gestures , that that was well , and indicated to Grimaud , by pointing to a turret that resembled a pepper caster , that he was to stand as sentinel .
0197m Chapter 16 .
“ Good !
I love you so tenderly that I can not help being jealous , even of the past. ” A smile , which was indefinable , passed over the lips of the queen .
It is a beautiful house , or at all events may be made so. ” “ There must be a good deal done before it can deserve that title , your excellency , for the tapestried hangings are very old. ” “ Let them all be taken away and changed , then , with the exception of the sleeping-chamber which is hung with red damask ; you will leave that exactly as it is. ” Bertuccio bowed .
“ I have them at hand , monsieur. ” “ Porthos , take yours from your holsters. ” “ I have them. ” “ Good ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , seizing his own ; “ now you understand , Porthos ? ” “ Not too well. ” “ We are out on the king ’ s service. ” “ Well ? ” “ For the king ’ s service we need horses. ” “ That is true , ” said Porthos .
0039m “ Ah , yes , ” continued Caderousse , “ and capital offers , too ; but you know , you will be captain , and who could refuse you then ? ” “ Meaning to say , ” replied Dantès , with a smile which but ill-concealed his trouble , “ that if I were not a captain—— ” “ Eh—eh ! ” said Caderousse , shaking his head .
Her reputation would be lost , it is true ; but of what value in the world was the reputation of the little wife of a mercer ?
Planchet , Grimaud , Bazin , and Mousqueton presented themselves , and received clear , positive , and serious orders from Athos .
Dead bodies are not kept a year ; they are shown to a magistrate , and the evidence is taken .
“ I have brought her here , sir , and I have deposited her in charge of Charlotte , who , till better advice comes , has bathed the foot in cold well-water. ” The guests now all took leave of Athos , excepting the old Duc de Barbe , who , as an old friend of the family of La Valliere , went to see little Louise and offered to take her to Blois in his carriage .
_Ventre-saint-gris_ , Monsieur de Tréville , as the king my father would have said .
He was one of those fine , ingenuous natures which assimilate themselves easily to the dispositions of others .
FATALITY Chapter L. CHAT BETWEEN BROTHER AND SISTER Chapter LI .
“ What , Planchet , is Monsieur d ’ Artagnan here ? ” “ Here I am , my friend , dear Athos ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , in a faltering voice and almost staggering from agitation .
Alas !
“ Yes. ” “ What to do ? ” Noirtier made no answer .
At this movement Mordaunt turned around , recognized them , and uttered an exclamation of savage delight .
Well , be assured , ” added he , with the familiarity of a Gascon , “ you shall not wait long. ” And he bowed in order to retire , and as if he considered the future in his own hands .
0111m The boat continued her voyage .
Thus Richard III. , for instance , was marvellously served by his conscience after the putting away of the two children of Edward IV .
“ Be kind enough , then , madame , to act more compliantly. ” “ The conduct is infamously violent !
“ Well , _pardieu ! _ ” said Aramis , “ it was only this : I had a dream , and I related it to her. ” “ Yez , yez , ” said the Swiss ; “ it ’ s simple enough to dell a dream , but I neffer dream. ” “ You are very fortunate , ” said Athos , rising ; “ I wish I could say as much ! ” “ Neffer , ” replied the Swiss , enchanted that a man like Athos could envy him anything .
Morrel attributed Penelon ’ s embarrassment to the elegance of his attire ; it was evident the good fellow had not gone to such an expense on his own account ; he was , no doubt , engaged on board some other vessel , and thus his bashfulness arose from the fact of his not having , if we may so express ourselves , worn mourning for the _Pharaon_ longer .
The sun , already high , penetrated into the room through the window , the curtains of which Raoul had neglected to close on the previous evening .
But make haste—I can not stay here all day. ” Other footsteps , going and coming , were now heard , and a moment afterwards the noise of rustling canvas reached Dantès ’ ears , the bed creaked , and the heavy footfall of a man who lifts a weight sounded on the floor ; then the bed again creaked under the weight deposited upon it .
“ This is not his writing ! ” said Athos .
You don ’ t imagine he would consider a little thing like that ? ” “ At any rate , ” said Porthos , “ I am glad to hear D ’ Artagnan admit that he is afraid. ” “ I not only confess it , but am proud of it , ” returned the Gascon ; “ I ’ m not such a rhinoceros as you are .
I know that a duel between us two would be a serious affair , because you are brave , and I am brave also .
I tell you so , by the faith of de Tréville. ” “ How so ? ” “ You will be assassinated. ” “ And I shall die in the performance of my duty. ” “ But your mission will not be accomplished. ” “ That is true , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
You have mistaken the time , you should have told me this two months ago , it is too late now .
I have met him several times at Florence , Bologna and Lucca , and he has now communicated to me the fact of his arrival in Paris .
no , indeed ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
DREAM OF VENGEANCE Chapter XXXVII .
Gradually the reception-room filled , and some of our old friends made their appearance—we mean Debray , Château-Renaud , and Beauchamp , accompanied by all the leading men of the day at the bar , in literature , or the army , for M. de Villefort moved in the first Parisian circles , less owing to his social position than to his personal merit .
Misfortune refreshes the Memory .
Instead of aiding the movements of my horse , I paralyzed them ; and I was just going to drown myself with the best grace in the world , when you arrived just in time to pull me out of the water ; therefore , sir , if you will agree , henceforward we are friends until death. ” “ Sir , ” replied Raoul , bowing , “ I am entirely at your service , I assure you. ” “ I am called the Count de Guiche , ” continued the young man ; “ my father is the Marechal de Grammont ; and now that you know who I am , do me the honor to inform me who you are. ” “ I am the Viscount de Bragelonne , ” answered Raoul , blushing at being unable to name his father , as the Count de Guiche had done .
The Deputy Procureur du Roi Chapter 7 .
Besides , the woman wore that black mantle which D ’ Artagnan could still see outlined on the shutter of the Rue de Vaugirard and on the door of the Rue de la Harpe ; still further , the man wore the uniform of a Musketeer .
and a large sum ! ” said Mazarin .
And that is that their swords may never leave their scabbards but in your majesty ’ s service .
“ What can it mean ? ” said Debray to Franz .
A burst of satisfaction hailed the last words of the captain ; and two or three heads , carried away by the enthusiasm of the moment , appeared through the openings of the tapestry .
In the name of heaven , explain yourself. ” “ That I may relate my misfortunes for you to treat them as fables ; that I may tell you my projects for you to go and betray them to my persecutor ?
The prisoner reproached himself with not having thus employed the hours he had passed in vain hopes , prayer , and despondency .
“ Dantès himself only knew that which personally concerned him , for he never beheld again the five persons I have named to you , or heard mention of anyone of them. ” “ Well , when Dantès was arrested , Monsieur Morrel hastened to obtain the particulars , and they were very sad .
“ I tell you so to prove to you that I still hope. ” And after pressing her own trembling hand upon that of the count , Mercédès rushed up the stairs and disappeared .
All that he had heard from these three different men , Comminges , Guitant and Villequier , confirmed him in his conviction that in case of serious tumults there would be no one on his side except the queen ; and then Anne of Austria had so often deserted her friends that her support seemed most precarious .
“ You , ” he said , “ you , who are so trusting , read and reflect that there is something in this letter important for us to see. ” Athos took the letter , frowning , but an idea that he should find something in this letter about D ’ Artagnan conquered his unwillingness to read it .
To regret the world is to regret the devil ; that is my conclusion. ” “ And that is mine also , ” said the curate .
“ No , his horse ; of which we each of us ate a slice with a hearty appetite .
The noise was caused by Porthos , who had just knocked down his man .
At that moment the violins sounded the signal for the ballet .
“ Beware , sir , ” replied the president , “ you are no longer in the assembly , and have only to do with individuals ; do not insult them unless you wish to be held responsible. ” But instead of listening , M. d ’ Épinay went on , — “ You are still as brave in your carriage as in your assembly because you are still four against one. ” The president stopped the coach .
“ Who has told me this fine story , monsieur ?
Let me know my crime , and the reason why I was condemned .
“ I was pretty drunk yesterday , D ’ Artagnan , ” said he , “ I can tell that by my tongue , which was swollen and hot this morning , and by my pulse , which was very tremulous .
Mother and Son The Count of Monte Cristo bowed to the five young men with a melancholy and dignified smile , and got into his carriage with Maximilian and Emmanuel .
Porthos waved his hand to Mousqueton to pick up the bottles .
“ Well ! ” insisted the Count .
“ Villequier , ” said Guitant .
Planchet !
I will call for them. ” “ Today ? ” “ No , tomorrow ; I shall not have time today. ” “ Well , tomorrow I will leave them when I go to Auteuil. ” “ May I depend on it ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ Because I shall secure my housekeeper on the strength of it. ” “ Now see here , will that be all ?
In the year 1811 I was transferred to Piedmont in France .
At this time , that is , about half-past twelve , Madame Danglars ordered her carriage , and went out .
“ Gentlemen , ” resumed Aramis , “ any one but the Comte de la Fere and myself would have had you arrested—for we have friends in Paris—but we are contented with another course .
In the passage she saw a retreating shadow ; it was Julie , who , uneasy herself , had anticipated her mother .
Mazarin was as fond of fine soldiers as , in later times , Frederick of Prussia used to be .
“ Oh , gentlemen , you see it is all useless , and that my father ’ s mind is really impaired , ” said Villefort .
Then another important thing , Raoul : should you be wounded in a battle , and fall from your horse , if you have any strength left , disentangle yourself from the line that your regiment has formed ; otherwise , it may be driven back and you will be trampled to death by the horses .
Live , Maximilian , and I will be yours .
“ You see , we had each our mission , ” said Porthos ; “ mine was to guard you and I am doing so .
To take spies and hang them , to make hazardous expeditions upon the dyke or the sea , to imagine wild plans , and to execute them coolly—such were the pastimes which made the army find these days short which were not only so long to the Rochellais , a prey to famine and anxiety , but even to the cardinal , who blockaded them so closely .
“ Yes , Monsieur Officer , ” stammered the mercer , more dead than alive , “ at your service. ” “ Come in , ” said the officer .
THE JOURNEY Chapter XXI .
There was a moment of frozen silence between these two .
“ That man is Cromwell , ” said he .
You must resolve upon one simple and single line of conduct , and for a man of your intelligence , this plan is as easy as it is necessary ; you must form honorable friendships , and by that means counteract the prejudice which may attach to the obscurity of your former life. ” Andrea visibly changed countenance .
There is the hullabaloo louder than ever ! ” D ’ Artagnan , in fact , heard a great noise on the side next the cellar .
I guessed all ; I followed him this evening to the Opera , and , concealed in a parquet box , have seen all. ” “ If you have seen all , madame , you know that the son of Fernand has publicly insulted me , ” said Monte Cristo with awful calmness .
“ ‘ I don ’ t want any supper , ’ said Caderousse .
At length , about the hour the governor had appointed , footsteps were heard on the stairs .
“ Oh , yes ; I will listen , monsieur , for I am most curious to hear what explanation you will give .
She passed the night thus .
0023m “ Alas , sir , in the most unexpected manner .
Let what may remain of revolutionary sap exhaust itself and die away with the old trunk , and condescend only to regard the young shoot which has started up at a distance from the parent tree , without having the power , any more than the wish , to separate entirely from the stock from which it sprung. ” “ Bravo , Villefort ! ” cried the marquis ; “ excellently well said !
He whispered a hope to himself that this beloved relative might be killed in the field .
The king smiled , patted it with his hand and jumped lightly into the saddle .
“ There is the true reason !
Chapter LIX .
Cloud .
“ But where is Louise ? ” asked the comte .
But D ’ Artagnan was too far off to hear him ; and if he had heard him in the disposition of mind he then enjoyed , he certainly would not have remarked it .
“ You will see what a fellow he is ; a man who nearly killed Mazarin between two doors .
Ridicule , sir—why , you know not its power in France , and yet you ought to know it ! ” “ Sire , sire , ” murmured the minister , “ for pity ’ s—— ” “ Approach , M. de Villefort , ” resumed the king , addressing the young man , who , motionless and breathless , was listening to a conversation on which depended the destiny of a kingdom .
The countess , in reply , bowed gracefully to Albert , and extended her hand with cordial kindness to Franz ; then , inviting Albert to take the vacant seat beside her , she recommended Franz to take the next best , if he wished to view the ballet , and pointed to the one behind her own chair .
The _Pharaon_ left Calcutta the 5th of February ; she ought to have been here a month ago. ” “ What is that ? ” said the Englishman .
1.F.4 .
Take care my cries are not heard , for if they are it is more than probable I should be removed to another part of the prison , and we be separated forever .
At that moment Bazin entered with the spinach and the omelet .
“ This vexes you ? ” said Athos .
Rest content with my friendship , for I say once more that is all I can promise , and I will promise no more than I can bestow. ” “ I understand , ” replied Fernand , “ you can endure your own wretchedness patiently , but you are afraid to share mine .
D ’ Artagnan knew it was considered disobliging by an Englishman to refuse to pledge him .
Then M. de Tréville , unwilling that it should be thought that he had influenced the wounded man , requested M. de la Trémouille to interrogate him himself .
Are we not two despairing creatures ?
One word more , sir ; do you promise me to make what use you can of the report of the fortune M. Cavalcanti will bring without touching the money ?
He approached the block and laid his axe upon it .
At the top of the stairs , upon the most conspicuous door of the corridor , was traced in black ink a gigantic number “ 1. ” D ’ Artagnan knocked , and upon the bidding to come in which came from inside , he entered the chamber .
Albert could not understand the banker ’ s look , and turning to Monte Cristo , who understood it perfectly , — “ Did you see , ” said he , “ how he looked at me ? ” “ Yes , ” said the count ; “ but did you think there was anything particular in his look ? ” “ Indeed , I did ; and what does he mean by his news from Greece ? ” “ How can I tell you ? ” “ Because I imagine you have correspondents in that country. ” Monte Cristo smiled significantly .
A youthful indiscretion , I suppose , which you were anxious to conceal from the world at large ? ” The major recovered himself , and resumed his usual calm manner , at the same time casting his eyes down , either to give himself time to compose his countenance , or to assist his imagination , all the while giving an under-look at the count , the protracted smile on whose lips still announced the same polite curiosity .
Let us go on .
D ’ Artagnan went straight to the stables ; day was just dawning .
Albert , in his turn , sat behind .
The name of Monte Cristo sent an electric shock through the young man on the other side of the iron gate , to whom Valentine ’ s _ “ I am coming ” _ was the customary signal of farewell .
“ Everything goes on capitally , my dear Monsieur Bernouin , but here is a man whom I must beg you to put in a safe place. ” “ Where , then , sir ? ” “ Where you like , provided that the place which you shall choose has iron shutters secured by padlocks and a door that can be locked. ” “ We have that , sir , ” replied Bernouin ; and the poor coachman was conducted to a closet , the windows of which were barred and which looked very much like a prison .
I am sorry , if you die , that you should die with sentiments of hatred toward me. ” Rochefort extended his hand to D ’ Artagnan , who took it .
They would be glad to see me dead , but they would not like themselves to die with me. ’ “ My mother only answered by sighs to consolations which she knew did not come from my father ’ s heart .
There was nothing but felicitations , pressures of the hand , and embraces ; there was no end to the inextinguishable laughter at the Rochellais .
“ Some gendarme ! ” he exclaimed .
oh , yes , tired enough—he has done nothing the whole of this blessed day !
Chapter XXXIV .
That falls out oddly !
Beauchamp took the paper , and read the article to which Albert pointed in an undertone .
During the last five or six months that this weakness had been felt , the worthy procurator had nearly become the slave of his wife .
“ Call Mr. Felton , ” said he .
I wish I were on board already , ” and he looked back again .
Well , he shall live ! ” Mercédès uttered a cry which made the tears start from Monte Cristo ’ s eyes ; but these tears disappeared almost instantaneously , for , doubtless , God had sent some angel to collect them—far more precious were they in his eyes than the richest pearls of Guzerat and Ophir .
This movement was accompanied by killing glances at Mademoiselle Danglars , and by sighs launched in the same direction .
When he was only a few paces from me , I saw that what I had taken for a weapon was only a spade .
“ Monsieur de Beaufort told the guards who took him to Vincennes that he had often thought what he should do in case he were put into prison , and that he had found out forty ways of escaping. ” “ My lord , if among these forty there had been one good way he would have been out long ago. ” “ Come , come ; not such a fool as I fancied ! ” thought Mazarin .
M. Coquenard had , since the arrival of Porthos , frequently cast his eyes with great uneasiness upon a large chest placed in front of his oak desk .
There was certainly enough in all this to turn a head only twenty-three years old , and Mme .
Certainly not , ” replied the count .
With forced composure he dipped the pen in the ink , and wrote the following lines upon a sheet of paper : “ I have no money to pay my bill , but I am not a dishonest man ; I leave behind me as a pledge this pin , worth ten times the amount .
May I beg of you , baroness , to honor me with an introduction to your daughter ? ” “ Oh , you are no stranger—at least not by name , ” replied Madame Danglars , “ and the last two or three days we have really talked of nothing but you .
No objection was raised , and the infant was given up to her .
But to avoid risk , put the pistols in the holsters .
“ Halloo ! ” he cried , “ are the prisoners still there ? ” “ Yes , sir , ” answered the sergeant , uncovering .
All was dark ; one solitary , feeble light was burning in the porter ’ s lodge , about forty paces distant from the house , as Baptistin had said .
“ ‘ Well , ’ said Cucumetto , ‘ have you executed your commission ? ’ “ ‘ Yes , captain , ’ returned Carlini .
“ Be satisfied of that ; these two can not have drunk all the cellar .
“ What ?
“ Madame , ” he said , kneeling , “ look upon the unhappy man at your feet .
By Kitty ’ s chamber he could gain that of her mistress .
When Franz appeared again on the shore , the yacht only seemed like a small white speck on the horizon .
_Peste ! _ That ’ s a fine age ! ” replied Porthos .
The agent arose , and having bowed to Lord Wilmore , who returned his salutation with the stiff politeness of the English , he retired .
The passageway sloped in a gentle descent , enlarging as they proceeded ; still Franz and the count were compelled to advance in a stooping posture , and were scarcely able to proceed abreast of one another .
The officer who commanded the post of the Red Cross was sent for , and by successive inquiries they learned that Athos was then lodged in Fort l ’ Evêque .
Chapter XX .
You are of my opinion , are you not , viscount ?
“ Now , ” said Aramis , “ we know how the matter stands .
“ Do not speak so loud , young man—don ’ t speak so loud .
yes , speak of dinner in a country where for a feast they eat boiled mutton , and as a treat drink beer .
“ Say on. ” “ You will permit me to make one remark ? ” “ Certainly ; pray do so. ” “ Then I should advise you to leave off wearing that style of dress. ” “ Indeed , ” said the major , regarding himself with an air of complete satisfaction .
He was accompanied by another man , who carried in his hand something long and flexible rolled up , resembling a washing line .
The poor child was constant in her attendance on her mother and sought by her filial attentions to make her forget the absence of her two sons and her other daughter .
“ I once knew a Bragelonne—is he still alive ? ” “ No , sir , he is dead ; and I believe it is from him my guardian , whose near relation he was , inherited the estate from which I take my name. ” “ And your guardian , sir , ” asked the queen , who could not help feeling some interest in the handsome young man before her , “ what is his name ? ” “ The Comte de la Fere , madame , ” replied the young man , bowing .
The days of expectation are long , and D ’ Artagnan , in particular , would have wagered that the days were forty-four hours .
His fears were now no longer for his hoard , but for himself .
As long as he remained in the boat which conveyed him to land , he kept his face toward Milady , who , standing on the deck , followed him with her eyes .
Then my friends and I took her , tried her , and condemned her. ” D ’ Artagnan then related the poisoning of Mme .
“ I have an idea , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
A Nightly Patrol .
“ You have guessed rightly .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” said Mazarin , “ you are worth your weight in gold. ” Chapter LIII .
you were going to drink my wine ? ” “ To the health of the king , monsieur ; I was going to drink a small glass of it if Fourreau had not told me I was called. ” “ Alas ! ” said Fourreau , whose teeth chattered with terror , “ I wanted to get him out of the way that I might drink myself. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said D ’ Artagnan , addressing the Guardsmen , “ you may easily comprehend that such a feast can only be very dull after what has taken place ; so accept my excuses , and put off the party till another day , I beg of you. ” The two Guardsmen courteously accepted D ’ Artagnan ’ s excuses , and perceiving that the four friends desired to be alone , retired .
Monsieur de Beaufort took the pieces out of his mouth and presented them with great formality to Monsieur de Chavigny , saying that for that evening the entertainment was ended , but in three months it should be repeated , when Pistache would have learned a few new tricks .
“ Merely because one might have died , ” carelessly answered Monte Cristo .
All the spectators returned him his salute , accompanying this courtesy with a loud hurrah which was audible to the four ; after which all four disappeared in the bastion , whither Grimaud had preceded them .
I pardon you for my blasted future , my lost honor , my defiled love , and my salvation forever compromised by the despair into which you have cast me .
He hastened with Franz to seat himself , free to recommence the discussion after dinner .
If the venture was successful the profit would be enormous , there would be a gain of fifty or sixty piastres each for the crew .
Andrea Cavalcanti The Count of Monte Cristo entered the adjoining room , which Baptistin had designated as the drawing-room , and found there a young man , of graceful demeanor and elegant appearance , who had arrived in a cab about half an hour previously .
“ Well , at the height of his despair God assisted him through human means .
He will amass wealth , he will injure the king ’ s revenue and pay to himself the pensions which Richelieu paid to others .
The fact was that Emery ’ s son had run a great chance of being suffocated , one of the rioters having proposed to squeeze him until he gave up all the gold he had swallowed .
Before leaving the convent of the Carmelites , Henrietta had desired her daughter to attend her at the palace , which she had inhabited for a long time and which she had only left because their poverty seemed to them more difficult to bear in gilded chambers .
Then he entreated Peppino , as he would a guardian angel , to give him food ; he offered him 1,000 francs for a mouthful of bread .
But Peppino did not answer .
If , when you arrive at Cours la Reine , you find no one , you must go on to Saint Germain .
“ Listen , ” said Morrel ; “ it is not the first time you have contemplated our present position , which is a serious and urgent one ; I do not think it is a moment to give way to useless sorrow ; leave that for those who like to suffer at their leisure and indulge their grief in secret .
Good-bye ; —I must run away , for they would send here for me , or , rather , farewell till I see you again .
Besides , what does the Gospel say ?
Besides , I can find my way about the city with my eyes shut. ” “ I wish we were already there , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and my advice is that we reach London before daybreak , even if we kill our horses. ” “ Come on , then , ” said Athos , “ for unless I am mistaken in my calculations we have only eight or ten leagues to go. ” The friends urged on their horses and arrived , in fact , at about five o ’ clock in the morning .
“ Why not ? ” said the Musketeer .
What matters it about Broussel—it is a name , not a thing. ” Mazarin , clever politician as he was , was for once mistaken ; Broussel was a thing , not a name .
They arrived without accident at the Hotel de la Chevrette .
I did hope ( man is a poor wretched creature ) , I did hope .
It is easier and less noisy than the door. ” Grimaud began to scale the wall again .
A light cloud passed over the count ’ s face .
“ You want me to throw again , do you not ? ” “ No , I would wish you to reflect. ” “ On what ? ” “ You mean to take your horse ? ” “ Without doubt. ” “ You are wrong , then .
I ’ m certain of it ; were it not for that , I should thank you , for you have worked for us .
“ ‘ Good ! ’ said the sentry , ‘ you may now go on. ’ “ Luigi and Teresa again set forward ; as they went on Teresa clung tremblingly to her lover at the sight of weapons and the glistening of carbines through the trees .
What has become of him ? ” “ I shouldn ’ t wonder if he were at the head of the mob at this very moment .
“ Oliver Cromwell. ” “ Very well , Monsieur Mordaunt , ” said Mazarin , “ give me this second letter and sit down. ” The young man drew from his pocket a second letter , presented it to the cardinal , and took his seat .
and I ’ m one of the king ’ s musketeers .
Are you going ? ” “ Pray , say everything that is kind to Countess G—— on the part of her friend the vampire. ” “ And what message shall I convey to the baroness ! ” “ That , with her permission , I shall do myself the honor of paying my respects in the course of the evening. ” The third act had begun ; and during its progress the Count of Morcerf , according to his promise , made his appearance in the box of Madame Danglars .
I placed myself in ambuscade with my sixty men ; I encircled the castle ; the riding horses I entrusted to Grimaud and I awaited your coming out , which I did not expect till to-morrow , and I didn ’ t hope to free you without a skirmish .
to take Mazarin. ” Athos curled his lip with disdain .
Do you not comprehend ? ” “ No. ” “ The Château d ’ If has no cemetery , and they simply throw the dead into the sea , after fastening a thirty-six-pound cannon-ball to their feet. ” “ Well ? ” observed the Englishman as if he were slow of comprehension .
Good-day , commander ! ” “ Ah , you know that already , ” said the private secretary , smiling and shaking hands with him .
to have to make a false excuse to Porthos !
Do you want any money ? ” “ No , sir ; I have all my pay to take—nearly three months ’ wages. ” “ You are a careful fellow , Edmond. ” “ Say I have a poor father , sir. ” “ Yes , yes , I know how good a son you are , so now hasten away to see your father .
She was struck , no doubt , with a superstitious idea ; she conceived that heaven denied its aid , and she remained in the attitude in which she had fallen , her head drooping and her hands clasped .
“ Who was it you were talking with over there ? ” she asked .
Certainly a call to the visitors ’ room had scarcely astonished Andrea less than themselves , for the wily youth , instead of making use of his privilege of waiting to be claimed on his entry into La Force , had maintained a rigid silence .
The duke vouchsafed no reply , but sitting down at the table made a sign that La Ramee should seat himself opposite .
Bonacieux .
“ I think he has only been introduced to Madame de Villefort. ” “ Still , he ought to have been here , ” said Debray ; “ I wonder what will be talked about tonight ; this funeral is the news of the day .
The political plans of the cardinal when he undertook this siege were extensive .
Athos appeared .
It will be useless for him to find you here. ” She rang the bell and Kitty appeared .
“ What can you expect , Athos ?
“ Free to leave me. ” “ Leave you ?
coward ! ” “ He is a coward , indeed , ” grumbled the host , drawing near to D ’ Artagnan , and endeavoring by this little flattery to make up matters with the young man , as the heron of the fable did with the snail he had despised the evening before .
“ Enter , sir , ” said he .
I will appeal to any of these gentlemen , could I leave my guest in the hands of a hideous bandit , as you term him ?
Are you French , sir ? ” said he to Athos .
It was at the brigantine that had left in the morning , and the tartan that had just set sail , that Edmond fixed his eyes .
D ’ Artagnan , more surprised than ever at the tone and manners of the Abbé d ’ Herblay , which contrasted so strongly with those of the Musketeer Aramis , remained staring with wide-open eyes at the face of his friend .
30123m “ So , sir , you lived at Lucca , did you ?
as Queen Catherine used to say , ” continued she , excited by her own words , “ rather than give up this infamous Broussel to them I will strangle him with my own hands ! ” And she sprang toward Gondy , whom assuredly at that moment she hated more than Broussel , with outstretched arms .
D ’ Artagnan and Porthos went on , meantime , to Paris .
“ Holloa , there ! ” cried he ; “ what do you want , you strumpet ?
It is my mistress you love ; you told me so just now. ” “ And does that hinder you from letting me know the second reason ? ” “ The second reason , Monsieur the Chevalier , ” replied Kitty , emboldened by the kiss in the first place , and still further by the expression of the eyes of the young man , “ is that in love , everyone for herself ! ” Then only D ’ Artagnan remembered the languishing glances of Kitty , her constantly meeting him in the antechamber , the corridor , or on the stairs , those touches of the hand every time she met him , and her deep sighs ; but absorbed by his desire to please the great lady , he had disdained the _soubrette_ .
“ What happened then ? ” she asked .
I really must pray you to excuse me , but—in truth—I was not attending to the conversation. ” “ Marquise , marquise ! ” interposed the old nobleman who had proposed the toast , “ let the young people alone ; let me tell you , on one ’ s wedding day there are more agreeable subjects of conversation than dry politics. ” “ Never mind , dearest mother , ” said a young and lovely girl , with a profusion of light brown hair , and eyes that seemed to float in liquid crystal , “ ’ tis all my fault for seizing upon M. de Villefort , so as to prevent his listening to what you said .
The Duc de Longueville gained the government of Pont-de-l ’ Arche , five hundred thousand francs for his wife and the honor of seeing her son held at the baptismal font by the young king and Henrietta of England .
Five millions—a pretty sum , eh , Peppino ? ” “ Hush—here is our man ! ” The clerk seized his pen , and Peppino his beads ; one was writing and the other praying when the door opened .
He was thereupon constrained to admit that he was indeed awake and that his bloody dream was real .
They are no longer sure. ” Planchet and Bazin were called , and took the places of Grimaud and Mousqueton .
Porthos lived in an apartment , large in size and of very sumptuous appearance , in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier .
On leaving Monte Cristo he walked slowly towards Villefort ’ s ; we say slowly , for Morrel had more than half an hour to spare to go five hundred steps , but he had hastened to take leave of Monte Cristo because he wished to be alone with his thoughts .
“ No , ” replied Athos ; “ and he—— ” “ Oh , he !
“ The commission is usually one and a half ; will you have two—three—five per cent , or even more ?
The prince threw his bridle over the pommel of the saddle , as he was wont to do when he wished to have both hands free , unsealed the letter of Madame de Longueville and started at a gallop on the road to Lens , attended by Raoul and his small escort , whilst messengers sent to recall the troops set out with a loose rein in other directions .
He was a man of execution , this worthy Porthos .
“ Escape !
“ Well , then , all is settled ; you are to set off , ” said the cardinal .
The two friends mounted , as did their servants .
“ They will have nothing to do , then at this end ? ” said Mordaunt .
How could she extricate herself from this labyrinth ?
“ But in either case , what is to be done ? ” said the young man .
A most active search was still prosecuted in the house near the Hotel de la Chevrette for the discovery of Planchet .
Do you understand it now ? ” Athos uttered a cry of joy and admiration , ran to a closet and drew forth workmen ’ s clothes , which the four friends immediately put on ; they then left the hotel , Athos carrying a saw , Porthos a vise , Aramis an axe and D ’ Artagnan a hammer and some nails .
“ That is my condemnation , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ he will spare me the _ennui_ of the Bastille , or the tediousness of a trial .
sir , what gratitude I feel ! ” exclaimed the man with gray hair .
“ Give the lackeys money , and they will start. ” “ We will give them money ? ” replied Athos .
look ! ” At these words he uncovered the small cup which contained the substance so lauded , took a teaspoonful of the magic sweetmeat , raised it to his lips , and swallowed it slowly with his eyes half shut and his head bent backwards .
“ ’ Tis done ! ” they both exclaimed at once .
A certain emotion , for which he could not account , made the lieutenant ’ s heart beat : he had no longer the assurance of youth ; experience had taught him the importance of past events .
Around the schooner lay a number of small fishing-boats belonging to the fishermen of the neighboring village , like humble subjects awaiting orders from their queen .
During the five or six years that he had lived in the strictest intimacy with his companions , Porthos and Aramis , they could remember having often seen him smile , but had never heard him laugh .
The count had just opened a door .
Ah , this letter gives me an idea—a capital idea !
what next ? ” “ De Wardes can not boast of anything. ” “ How is that ?
“ My uncle , ” answered Mordaunt ; “ but traitors to England are no longer members of my family. ” Cromwell observed the young man a moment in silence , then , with that profound melancholy Shakespeare describes so well : “ Mordaunt , ” he said , “ you are a terrible servant. ” “ When the Lord commands , ” said Mordaunt , “ His commands are not to be disputed .
“ Athos ! ” cried the two Musketeers .
During the exchange of these two words Felton drew back quickly , and when Lord de Winter entered , he was several paces from the prisoner .
Bonacieux , “ pardon me for interrupting you ; but what do you advise me to do ?
“ I think so ; am I not right , M. de Villefort ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
Grimaud thereupon presented himself with his smooth exterior at the donjon of Vincennes .
To the boat !
“ I do not understand , my Lord , ” said she , in order to gain time and make her adversary speak out .
It was because you loved me well enough to give me one of those sweet means of death of which we were speaking ; a death without agony , a death which allows me to fade away while pronouncing Valentine ’ s name and pressing your hand. ” “ Yes , you have guessed rightly , Morrel , ” said the count , “ that is what I intended. ” “ Thanks ; the idea that tomorrow I shall no longer suffer , is sweet to my heart. ” “ Do you then regret nothing ? ” “ No , ” replied Morrel .
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses .
He was embarrassed whilst speaking to me and yet quite firm in his determination to refuse .
Bonacieux , with some embarrassment , “ the cause of this event ? ” “ He attributed it , I believe , to a political cause. ” “ I doubted from the first ; and now I think entirely as he does .
I advise you to complain ! ” said Porthos .
The newly introduced personage followed Bonacieux impatiently with his eyes till he had gone out ; and the moment the door closed , “ They have seen each other ; ” said he , approaching the cardinal eagerly .
A surgeon !
“ Emmanuel accompanied me , father .
Bonacieux .
A woman who had been a reigning beauty a year before he was born could not be the subject of any scheme for him .
Another thing , not less essential , was to warn Charles Stuart of the attempt to be made , so that he might assist his rescuers as much as possible , or at least do nothing to thwart their efforts .
“ Cocles , pay two hundred francs to each of these good fellows , ” said Morrel .
The rock yielded , rolled over , bounded from point to point , and finally disappeared in the ocean .
My mother-in-law expended gold , caresses , dignities on Concini , who ruined her ; the king made Vitry marechal of France for an assassination : while I have left in obscurity , in poverty , the noble D ’ Artagnan , who saved me ! ” And running to a table , on which were paper , pens and ink , she hastily began to write .
It appeared however to Milady that in one of the furtive glances she darted from time to time at the grating of the door she thought she saw the ardent eyes of the young man through the narrow opening .
All four came up together .
Well , these boards you hear unloaded are the posts and planks to build my scaffold .
I suspected it .
He had started the previous evening , and had only returned an hour since .
The Englishman was an original ; I had seen him conversing that morning with Grimaud , and Grimaud had told me that he had made him proposals to enter into his service .
The door closed ; but this time a fresh inmate was left with Dantès—Hope .
Thence he saw the king , the queen and Monsieur Mazarin , and heard the mass as well as if he had been on duty .
made but a faint attempt to parry this unexpected blow ; the monarchy he had scarcely reconstructed tottered on its precarious foundation , and at a sign from the emperor the incongruous structure of ancient prejudices and new ideas fell to the ground .
“ Oh , were I not a foreigner !
If those who remain of the troop persist in coming to the assault , we will allow the besiegers to get as far as the ditch , and then we will push down upon their heads that strip of wall which keeps its perpendicular by a miracle. ” “ Bravo ! ” cried Porthos .
Then , in that chamber which recalled to him so many royal souvenirs , whither had come so many courtiers , the scene of so much flattering homage , alone with a despairing servant , whose feeble soul could afford no support to his own , the king at last yielded to sorrow , and his courage sank to a level with that feebleness , those shadows , and that wintry cold .
“ I am finishing the most execrable morning ’ s work. ” “ What is it ? ” said Albert ; “ arranging your papers , apparently. ” “ My papers , thank God , no , —my papers are all in capital order , because I have none ; but M. Cavalcanti ’ s. ” “ M .
“ Rinse the glasses , ” said Grimaud .
Then , though yourself a servant , you have other servants to wait upon you , take care of your clothes , and see that your linen is duly prepared for you .
The two friends , left alone , remained silent , face to face .
come down ! ” Athos came down ; his friends , who anxiously awaited him , saw him returned with joy .
He begs you to believe that at a gesture of your majesty everything will be possible to him .
you have been to sea ? ” “ Yes ; I have just made a little excursion to the Borromean Islands18. ” “ What of that ?
Do as I bid you : show the chevalier out ; and this evening at eleven o ’ clock—you have heard what I said. ” “ It appears that these appointments are all made for eleven o ’ clock , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ that ’ s a settled custom. ” Milady held out her hand to him , which he kissed tenderly .
She was a most atrocious woman. ” “ And then , ” said Aramis , with the tone of philosophical indifference which he had assumed since he had belonged to the church and in which there was more atheism than confidence in God , “ what is the use of thinking of it all ?
“ Is this corpse come to life already ?
“ Write , my lord , ” he said .
It was one of those events which decide the life of a man ; it was a choice between the king and the cardinal—the choice made , it must be persisted in .
Two held poor Assunta , who , unable to conceive that any harm was intended to her , smiled in the face of those who were soon to become her executioners .
“ Ah , if you laugh , if you doubt me , ” replied Aramis , “ you shall know nothing. ” “ We believe like Mohammedans , and are as mute as tombstones , ” said Athos .
I mean to ask if you are married ? ” “ Ah !
“ And you killed her ? ” the monk exclaimed .
The king and his escort have gone this way ; we had better take the opposite direction , eh ? ” Athos did not reply ; he reflected .
The musketeers rode the whole length of the Faubourg Saint Antoine and of the road to Vincennes , and soon found themselves out of the town , then in a forest and then within sight of a village .
Bonacieux , in an undertone ; “ and now you may ruin us all. ” “ My Lord , Madame , I ask a hundred pardons !
“ Far from here ? ” asked Athos .
Madame Morrel looked again through the keyhole , Morrel was writing ; but Madame Morrel remarked , what her daughter had not observed , that her husband was writing on stamped paper .
The nostrils of the horse were no longer above water , and the rider , who had lost the reins in struggling , fell with his head back and his arms extended .
He saw overhead a black and tempestuous sky , across which the wind was driving clouds that occasionally suffered a twinkling star to appear ; before him was the vast expanse of waters , sombre and terrible , whose waves foamed and roared as if before the approach of a storm .
I have adopted her as my daughter , having no one else to love in the world. ” “ You live alone , then ? ” “ I do. ” “ You have no sister—no son—no father ? ” “ I have no one. ” “ How can you exist thus without anyone to attach you to life ? ” “ It is not my fault , madame .
D ’ Artagnan looked for some tapestry behind which he might hide himself , and felt an immense inclination to crawl under the table .
“ Admirable ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
A quarter of an hour afterwards the postilion , having been put in the right road , passed with a crack of his whip through the gateway of the Barrière Saint-Martin .
They seemed awaiting orders .
Six days !
“ Well , I must confess it does , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
Another possessed all Mercédès ’ heart ; that other was absent , had disappeared , perhaps was dead .
Napoleon is the Mahomet of the West , and is worshipped by his commonplace but ambitious followers , not only as a leader and lawgiver , but also as the personification of equality. ” “ He ! ” cried the marquise : “ Napoleon the type of equality !
And without losing a minute , thinking he saw an opening , he thrust his right in and forced Mordaunt to parry a counter en quarte so fine that the point of the weapon might have turned within a wedding ring .
“ Don ’ t alarm yourself , my little Benedetto , but just point out to me some means of gaining those thirty thousand francs without your assistance , and I will contrive it. ” “ Well , I ’ ll see—I ’ ll try to contrive some way , ” said Andrea .
“ Edward , ” cried M. de Villefort , so harshly that the child started up from the floor , “ do you hear me ? —Go ! ” The child , unaccustomed to such treatment , arose , pale and trembling ; it would be difficult to say whether his emotion were caused by fear or passion .
“ Already up , Raoul ? ” exclaimed the count .
Ah !
“ You will see , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ that they will be as different as possible in the hands of Ali .
Albert de Morcerf , ” said Beauchamp , rising in his turn , “ I can not throw you out of window for three weeks—that is to say , for twenty-four days to come—nor have you any right to split my skull open till that time has elapsed .
At that moment a heavy footstep was heard descending the wooden staircase that led from the upper floor , and , with many bows and courteous smiles , the host of the Pont du Gard besought his guest to enter .
Come , let us come to the point .
Ay , and observe—it just occurs to me that the Puritans are furious against Buckingham , and their preachers designate him as the Antichrist. ” “ Well ? ” said Milady .
A detachment of carbineers , fifteen abreast , galloped up the Corso in order to clear it for the _barberi_ .
Do you know him ?
But the abbess contented herself with listening and smiling without replying a word .
Albert tottered and fell overpowered in a chair .
He had , not the less , decided upon setting out that same evening ; and in spite of the remonstrances that had been offered to him , he persisted in having the review , hoping by setting it at defiance to conquer the disease which began to lay hold upon him .
D ’ Artagnan perceived that he was enforcing prudence with respect to himself .
Ah , forgive me , ” said Valentine , perceiving the effect which her words were producing on Maximilian : “ I have done wrong , for I have given utterance to thoughts concerning that man which I did not even know existed in my heart .
A large vase of Japan porcelain , filled with flowers that loaded the air with their perfume , stood in the salon .
My offers did not arouse him , —did not even tempt him. ” “ So much the worse !
Then a voice reached them once more , sending this threat : “ To our next meeting , sirs , in England. ” Chapter XLIV .
“ At them ! ” echoed De Guiche .
“ I can not answer for the queen .
I had provided myself with a dark lantern .
The young men sprang up , and seized their muskets .
Ideology If the Count of Monte Cristo had been for a long time familiar with the ways of Parisian society , he would have appreciated better the significance of the step which M. de Villefort had taken .
Ali , ” cried he , striking at the same time on the brazen gong .
“ Have you the wick ? ” asked the one who carried the lantern .
It was now one o ’ clock in the morning and the coadjutor returned home .
Queen Elizabeth and Catherine II .
The count ’ s tutor was well acquainted with the country ; he consequently proposed to take a crossroad , which lay between that of Lens and that of Bethune .
Besides an old soldier always likes to march with as little baggage as possible. ” “ That is just the case—precisely so. ” “ But you are a man of foresight and prudence , therefore you sent your luggage on before you .
At a distance of hardly a quarter of a league they looked down on Lens , at bay , and before Lens the enemy ’ s entire army .
But in such a situation a single moment suffices to change the strongest doubt into certainty .
But listen ; they appear to be speaking of me. ” D ’ Artagnan drew near the window , and lent his ear .
I have answered for you .
Not at all , prince , ” said Monte Cristo laying a marked stress on the title , “ what have I done for you ?
The count must feel sure that Franz recognized him ; and yet he had not let fall a single word indicating any previous acquaintance between them .
So much the better ; it proves that we know how to keep our secrets. ” “ I do not reproach you , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ ’ tis only because Monsieur de la Fere has spoken of friendship that I question your conduct. ” “ And what do you find in it that is worthy of blame ? ” asked Aramis , haughtily .
He determined to make two cardinals. ’ “ By choosing two of the greatest personages of Rome , especially rich men—_this_ was the return the Holy Father looked for .
Yes , ” continued he , “ a charming woman , who entertained kind views toward our friend D ’ Artagnan , who , on his part , has given her some offense for which she tried to revenge herself a month ago by having him killed by two musket shots , a week ago by trying to poison him , and yesterday by demanding his head of the cardinal. ” “ What !
Perhaps by the time you return to Paris , I shall be quite a sober , staid father of a family !
Nevertheless , ” he continued , in the tone of one who gives wholesome advice , “ I think it is better not to make them. ” “ Then , ” said Raoul , “ this Monsieur Scarron is a poet ? ” “ Yes ; you are warned , vicomte .
He saw that these tracks tended toward the wall ; on the other side he found similar tracks , then footprints of horses and then signs of a troop of cavalry which had moved away in the direction of Enghien .
The Contract Chapter 97 .
“ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ but there are the equipments. ” “ That is very true .
I am tired , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , sitting down .
Caderousse ’ s hands still grasped the gold and bank-notes , and La Carconte called up her sweetest smiles while welcoming the reappearance of their guest .
Answer me ! ” “ On what I could get. ” “ You lie , ” repeated the abbé a third time , with a still more imperative tone .
Being naturally goodhearted , and having had once a liking for Athos , which had grown into a sincere friendship , he was delighted at thus meeting a man full of intelligence and moral strength , instead of a drunkard .
In the evening M. de Tréville attended the king ’ s gaming table .
Thus , it was almost tremblingly that she resumed her lover ’ s arm .
On her side , Milady tried to encourage Felton in his project ; but at the first words which issued from her mouth , she plainly saw that the young fanatic stood more in need of being moderated than urged .
Has the law a memory for all those soft recollections you endeavor to recall ?
“ Come , Parry , ” said the king , “ cease your tears. ” “ If it ’ s Parry , ” said the bishop , “ I have nothing to fear ; so allow me to salute your majesty and to tell you who I am and for what I am come. ” At this sight and this voice Charles was about to cry out , when Aramis placed his finger on his lips and bowed low to the king of England .
At the Palais Royal , the crowd , which had flowed in from the adjacent street was still greater ; like an impetuous mob , a wave of human beings came to meet the carriage and rolled tumultuously into the Rue Saint Honore .
Aramis tried to withdraw his hand , but the king still held it .
He seemed scarcely five-and-thirty .
“ Yes , sir , ” replied the Englishman .
She held a book in her hand and her arm was supported by a cushion .
His visitor appeared slightly uneasy .
He might have been taken for a statue .
The Beggar of St. Eustache .
He rose in his turn , and seizing handfuls of confetti and sweetmeats , with which the carriage was filled , cast them with all the force and skill he was master of .
Twice or thrice during the dance the young girl had glanced at Luigi , and each time she saw that he was pale and that his features were agitated , once even the blade of his knife , half drawn from its sheath , had dazzled her eyes with its sinister glare .
Would you like a proof of it ?
Then , when they had thus passed the day in building castles in the air , they separated their flocks , and descended from the elevation of their dreams to the reality of their humble position .
“ Ah , monsieur , ” said he , after having vainly searched on the mantle-piece and the shelves , “ I have not got any candles. ” “ Take one of the carriage-lamps , Bertuccio , ” said the count , “ and show me the apartments. ” The steward obeyed in silence , but it was easy to see , from the manner in which the hand that held the light trembled , how much it cost him to obey .
In brief , how much remains ? ” “ Twenty-five pistoles , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Bertuccio remained standing before him .
“ Yes. ” “ Her hand ! ” exclaimed everyone .
Total ......... .............. .............. ............ 114 frs .
I pass my life upon my legs. ” Aramis again presented himself at the bishop ’ s .
Did you bet ? ” “ Oh , merely a paltry fifty louis. ” “ And who was the winner ? ” “ Nautilus .
Am I deceived ?
Live the cardinal ! ” resounded on every side , and the drums were beaten in all directions .
And you really mean to say ; monsieur , that my dear father is here ? ” “ Yes , sir ; and I can even add that I have only just left his company .
I did not seek one , I did not ask for one .
Each one , on awaking , would find himself on the field of battle .
You had begun to pervert my poor Felton .
“ Yes , yes , ” he said , “ I will pardon you if you tell me all. ” “ Oh ! ” cried the executioner , “ all !
I must go to the Chamber , for our life is not an idle one. ” “ You only breakfast ; I await two persons , and the instant they arrive we shall sit down to table. ” Chapter 40 .
No , for I think he never liked me since the day when I was silly enough , after a little quarrel we had , to propose to him to stop for ten minutes at the island of Monte Cristo to settle the dispute—a proposition which I was wrong to suggest , and he quite right to refuse .
As for the old man , his chest heaved with his panting respiration .
Madame Danglars had started when Villefort , on the count ’ s invitation , offered his arm ; and Villefort felt that his glance was uneasy beneath his gold spectacles , when he felt the arm of the baroness press upon his own .
Let this house be the first repaid , my son , and respect this man. ” “ Father , I will , ” said Maximilian .
“ And what is that ? ” “ That of being your invalid , ” answered Scarron .
“ Oh , my lord , ” he cried , with an expression of stupefaction in his face ; “ you haven ’ t the heart to kill me ! ” “ No ; not if thou dost not oppose my flight. ” “ But , my lord , if I allow you to escape I am a ruined man. ” “ I will compensate thee for the loss of thy place. ” “ You are determined to leave the chateau ? ” “ By Heaven and earth !
Vampa in this attire resembled a painting by Léopold Robert or Schnetz .
I lent you money , and you returned it ; that ’ s like good neighbors , and we are quits. ” “ We are never quits with those who oblige us , ” was Dantès ’ reply ; “ for when we do not owe them money , we owe them gratitude. ” “ What ’ s the use of mentioning that ?
“ She likewise charged me to tell you that she still loved you. ” “ Ah , ” said Buckingham , “ God be praised !
The young man knew quite well that , after the succession of misfortunes which had befallen his father , great changes had taken place in the style of living and housekeeping ; but he did not know that matters had reached such a point .
Speak loud , very loud , for they will be listening at the door .
My God , my God , my God ! ” She knelt upon a cushion and prayed , with her head buried between her palpitating arms .
M. de Tréville , who had received the account of the adventure from the mouths of the heroes of it , related it in all its details to his Eminence , not forgetting the episode of the napkin .
Athos did not leave his chamber ; he made up his mind not to take a single step to equip himself .
“ They began dinner and Spada was only able to inquire of his nephew if he had received his message .
“ And how did this misfortune occur ? ” inquired the latter , resuming the interrupted conversation .
At the end of ten minutes fifty thousand lights glittered , descending from the Palazzo di Venezia to the Piazza del Popolo , and mounting from the Piazza del Popolo to the Palazzo di Venezia .
We are now reduced to live at the expense of these daughters of Heaven ; we are the poor , succored by God. ” “ But why not address yourself to your sister , the queen ? ” asked the girl .
Athos and D ’ Artagnan said nothing , but their silence seemed to imply consent .
At the end of a quarter of an hour a faltering footstep was heard , and Villefort appeared at the door of the apartment where d ’ Avrigny and Morrel had been staying , one absorbed in meditation , the other in grief .
“ I go , ” he said , “ only , shall I enter the chamber where those gentlemen are ? ” “ No , it is not worth while. ” “ Well , do me the kindness to take my purse , which I left on the mantelpiece. ” “ All right. ” He then proceeded , with his usual calm gait , to the stable and went into the very midst of the soldiery , who , foreigner as he was , could not help admiring his height and the enormous strength of his great limbs .
At ten o ’ clock Milady began to appear restless .
All at once , at the turning of the road she saw the glitter of laced hats and the waving of feathers ; she counted two , then five , then eight horsemen .
The abbé sank upon Edmond ’ s bed , while Edmond himself remained standing .
They seek for him in the mountains , and he is on the waters ; they follow him on the waters , and he is on the open sea ; then they pursue him , and he has suddenly taken refuge in the islands , at Giglio , Giannutri , or Monte Cristo ; and when they hunt for him there , he reappears suddenly at Albano , Tivoli , or La Riccia. ” “ And how does he behave towards travellers ? ” “ Alas !
Had old Æolus appeared at this moment , he would have been proclaimed king of the _moccoli_ , and Aquilo the heir-presumptive to the throne .
In case of a check ” ( Mazarin made a slight movement ) , “ one must foresee everything ; in the case of a check , he desires to retire into France and to live here as a private individual .
God , who can read my heart , all the gratitude I feel , will reward you !
I content myself with saying : Command , monseigneur ; I am ready. ” “ Your pardon ? ” said Richelieu , surprised .
woe is me ! ” cried the lieutenant ; “ there ’ s only one man in the world who could stay my hand ; by a fatality that very man bars my way .
Oh , what larks ! ” Meanwhile the object of this hideous admiration approached the wicket , against which one of the keepers was leaning .
Edmond felt that the moment had arrived , summoned up all his courage , held his breath , and would have been happy if at the same time he could have repressed the throbbing of his veins .
It will be happier , I think , than ours has been .
“ Your eminence , ” said Comminges , “ as I was re-conducting the young man for whom you have asked , he approached the glass door of the gallery , and gazed intently upon some object , doubtless the picture by Raphael , which is opposite the door .
“ No , sir , but I am severely. ” “ What can we do ? ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ we must return to Paris. ” “ I will take care of Mousqueton , ” said Grimaud ; and he gave his arm to his old comrade , whose eyes were full of tears , nor could Grimaud tell whether the tears were caused by wounds or by the pleasure of seeing him again .
I know that—by name at least. ” “ That is it precisely , Signor Aladdin ; it is hashish—the purest and most unadulterated hashish of Alexandria , —the hashish of Abou-Gor , the celebrated maker , the only man , the man to whom there should be built a palace , inscribed with these words , _A grateful world to the dealer in happiness_. ” “ Do you know , ” said Franz , “ I have a very great inclination to judge for myself of the truth or exaggeration of your eulogies. ” “ Judge for yourself , Signor Aladdin—judge , but do not confine yourself to one trial .
“ I have had the honor of informing your Eminence that these men were drunk. ” “ And was this lady young and handsome ? ” asked the cardinal , with a certain degree of anxiety .
This guide was our friend Peppino , who dashed into the thicket of high weeds , through a path which none but lizards or polecats could have imagined to be an open road .
There happened to be a sermon , which made the church very full of people .
“ Yes , yes , ” replied Dantès eagerly ; “ I would beg of you , who see so completely to the depths of things , and to whom the greatest mystery seems but an easy riddle , to explain to me how it was that I underwent no second examination , was never brought to trial , and , above all , was condemned without ever having had sentence passed on me ? ” “ That is altogether a different and more serious matter , ” responded the abbé .
So much the better ; the more honorable men there are here the better I shall be satisfied. ” “ M .
He sent one of his servants to M. de la Trémouille with a letter in which he begged of him to eject the cardinal ’ s Guardsmen from his house , and to reprimand his people for their audacity in making _sortie_ against the king ’ s Musketeers .
Rochefort , rendered suspicious and cautious by these words , entered the apartment , where he found Mazarin sitting at the table , dressed in his ordinary garb and as one of the prelates of the Church , his costume being similar to that of the abbés in that day , excepting that his scarf and stockings were violet .
But are there not a thousand tortures by which a man may be made to suffer without society taking the least cognizance of them , or offering him even the insufficient means of vengeance , of which we have just spoken ?
Chapter 115 .
Chapter XLIV .
Edmond gazed very earnestly at the mass of rocks which gave out all the variety of twilight colors , from the brightest pink to the deepest blue ; and from time to time his cheeks flushed , his brow darkened , and a mist passed over his eyes .
Now , the very morning of which we speak was that of his quarter-day payment , and Scarron , as usual , had sent his servant to get his money at the pension-office , but the man had returned and said that the government had no more money to give Monsieur Scarron .
Queer , though .
You cursed host !
The black horses of the Musketeers , their martial carriage , with the regimental step of these noble companions of the soldier , would have betrayed the most strict incognito .
What had you to revenge on the Marquis de Saint-Méran ? ” “ Oh , it was not on him , monsieur ; it was on another. ” “ This is strange , ” returned Monte Cristo , seeming to yield to his reflections , “ that you should find yourself without any preparation in a house where the event happened that causes you so much remorse. ” “ Monsieur , ” said the steward , “ it is fatality , I am sure .
The law would seize it , and put you in prison ; if at the end of three or four months you are set at liberty , the ring will be lost , or a false stone , worth three francs , will be given you , instead of a diamond worth 50,000 or perhaps 55,000 francs ; from which you must allow that one runs considerable risk in purchasing. ’ “ Caderousse and his wife looked eagerly at each other .
Poor Madame du Vallon !
I have a fancy , and mean to get a housekeeper. ” “ Well , you shall have your five hundred francs , ” said Andrea ; “ but it is very hard for me , my poor Caderousse—you take advantage—— ” “ Bah , ” said Caderousse , “ when you have access to countless stores. ” One would have said Andrea anticipated his companion ’ s words , so did his eye flash like lightning , but it was but for a moment .
He wore trousers of blue cloth , boots tolerably clean , but not of the brightest polish , and a little too thick in the soles , buckskin gloves , a hat somewhat resembling in shape those usually worn by the gendarmes , and a black cravat striped with white , which , if the proprietor had not worn it of his own free will , might have passed for a halter , so much did it resemble one .
“ Why , the vilest animals are not suffered to die by such a death as that .
The Burglary Chapter 83 .
“ ‘ “ Well , ” asked the president , “ what do you say to this letter , general ? ” “ ‘ “ I say that it is too soon after declaring myself for Louis XVIII .
“ The thing is clear as day , ” said he ; “ and you must have had a very confiding nature , as well as a good heart , not to have suspected the origin of the whole affair. ” “ Do you really think so ?
“ Only grazed a little , ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ my fingers were caught between two stones—that of the wall and that of my ring—and the skin was broken. ” “ That comes of wearing diamonds , my master , ” said Athos , disdainfully .
Meanwhile , Grimaud , still mute as ever , drew from the pie the other poniard , the rope ladder and the gag .
The night was one of feverish distraction , and in its progress visions , good and evil , passed through Dantès ’ mind .
You will accompany monsieur le vicomte till Grimaud rejoins you .
I overcame every obstacle , and reached the goal ; but woe to those who stood in my pathway ! ” 50215m “ Enough , ” said Mercédès ; “ enough , Edmond !
Uncle and Nephew .
“ Well ? ” asked the duke when they were alone .
It was said Athos had met with great crosses in love , and that a frightful treachery had forever poisoned the life of this gallant man .
It is a little worse for the journey , but that ’ s no matter. ” “ There are no horses. ” Albert looked at Franz like a man who hears a reply he does not understand .
During this time Porthos played close .
As soon as she perceived him , she cried , “ You have promised your protection ; you have promised to save me from her anger .
The Unknown Day , for which Dantès had so eagerly and impatiently waited with open eyes , again dawned .
I had chosen this text—tell me , dear D ’ Artagnan , if it is not to your taste— ‘ _Non inutile est desiderium in oblatione_ ’ ; that is , ‘ A little regret is not unsuitable in an offering to the Lord. ’ ” “ Stop there ! ” cried the Jesuit , “ for that thesis touches closely upon heresy .
I vow I should consider it a profanation. ” “ Pledge it , then ; you can borrow at least a thousand crowns on it .
But Porthos was not a man to abandon an old servant , and when Mousqueton rose above the water , blind as a new-born puppy , he found he was supported by the large hand of Porthos and that he was thus enabled , without having occasion even to move , to advance toward the cable with the dignity of a very triton .
“ Bravo ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ you sing charmingly , dear Aramis .
“ Because it is a grievous thing for me to meet again those two men who caused the failure of our enterprise. ” “ And yet , ” said Porthos , “ neither of them had any advantage over us .
“ Ah , you are there , ” said she , at length , turning towards Fernand .
Debray stretched himself upon a large couch , and Madame Danglars passed into her dressing-room with Mademoiselle Cornélie .
She corrupted this man ; she placed the poniard in his hand ; she made him kill the duke .
Notwithstanding his shattered nerves , the ringing sensation in his ears , and the madness which turned his brain , Villefort rose as he perceived her .
The general depended much on it ; he even came to force M. Danglars .
how pale you look ! ” “ It is very evident what is the matter with her , ” said Madame de Villefort ; “ M .
This morning you rose at five o ’ clock ; you must stand in need of repose .
poor young man !
His naturally dark complexion had assumed a still further shade of brown from the habit the unfortunate man had acquired of stationing himself from morning till eve at the threshold of his door , on the lookout for guests who seldom came , yet there he stood , day after day , exposed to the meridional rays of a burning sun , with no other protection for his head than a red handkerchief twisted around it , after the manner of the Spanish muleteers .
If he turned up an ace first he won ; if a king he lost .
The weather was fine and the game at tennis took place in the open air .
It is useless to let the cardinal know. ” “ Yes , sire. ” “ You understand , Tréville—an edict is still an edict , it is forbidden to fight , after all. ” “ But this encounter , sire , is quite out of the ordinary conditions of a duel .
“ You heard—Cavalcanti. ” “ That tells me their name , and nothing else. ” “ Ah !
With that sum you can extricate yourself from your present difficulties ; and when you are full of money again , you can redeem it , and take it back cleansed from its ancient stains , as it will have passed through the hands of usurers. ” Athos smiled .
But you , madame , you appear to be free , ” continued the novice ; “ and if you were inclined to fly it only rests with yourself to do so. ” “ Whither would you have me go , without friends , without money , in a part of France with which I am unacquainted , and where I have never been before ? ” “ Oh , ” cried the novice , “ as to friends , you would have them wherever you want , you appear so good and are so beautiful ! ” “ That does not prevent , ” replied Milady , softening her smile so as to give it an angelic expression , “ my being alone or being persecuted. ” “ Hear me , ” said the novice ; “ we must trust in heaven .
The steward gave him a gun ; this was what Vampa longed for .
Then she ventured to open her eyelids , and glance over her extended arm .
It will require four or five days for the transmission of the money , four or five days for her to return ; that makes ten days .
“ What do you want ?
The Skiff “ Lightning. ” Chapter LXXI .
It is even probable that I shall have to make a journey .
Let us recall the exact facts .
On your return you were received by an august personage , and I perceive with pleasure that you preserve the souvenir she gave you. ” D ’ Artagnan placed his hand upon the queen ’ s diamond , which he wore , and quickly turned the stone inward ; but it was too late .
May you not have been philandering a little also , Monsieur Bonacieux ?
His body seemed to acquire an airy lightness , his perception brightened in a remarkable manner , his senses seemed to redouble their power , the horizon continued to expand ; but it was not the gloomy horizon of vague alarms , and which he had seen before he slept , but a blue , transparent , unbounded horizon , with all the blue of the ocean , all the spangles of the sun , all the perfumes of the summer breeze ; then , in the midst of the songs of his sailors , —songs so clear and sonorous , that they would have made a divine harmony had their notes been taken down , —he saw the Island of Monte Cristo , no longer as a threatening rock in the midst of the waves , but as an oasis in the desert ; then , as his boat drew nearer , the songs became louder , for an enchanting and mysterious harmony rose to heaven , as if some Loreley had decreed to attract a soul thither , or Amphion , the enchanter , intended there to build a city .
One paragraph spoke of the return of Bonaparte and promised another letter and further details , on the arrival of the _Pharaon_ belonging to the shipbuilder Morrel , of Marseilles , whose captain was entirely devoted to the emperor .
“ I am ( as you have said ) the Count Andrea Cavalcanti , son of Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti , a descendant of the Cavalcanti whose names are inscribed in the golden book at Florence .
Her maiden name was De Servières , and her first husband was Colonel the Marquis of Nargonne. ” “ I have not the honor of knowing Madame Danglars ; but I have already met M. Lucien Debray. ” “ Ah , indeed ? ” said Danglars ; “ and where was that ? ” “ At the house of M. de Morcerf. ” “ Ah !
Paris is not paved with cambric ! ” “ Monsieur , you act wrongly in endeavoring to mortify me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , in whom the natural quarrelsome spirit began to speak more loudly than his pacific resolutions .
It was therefore no small mortification to him to have visited most of the principal cities in Italy without having excited the most trifling observation .
That was a superb throw , so I left off there. ” D ’ Artagnan breathed as if the whole hostelry had been removed from his breast .
After that she plunged into the cabal headed by the Duke of Beaufort ; and the ‘ coxcomb ’ arrested De Beaufort and banished Madame de Chevreuse. ” “ You know , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ that she has had leave to return to France ? ” “ Yes she is come back and is going to commit some fresh folly or another. ” “ Oh , but this time perhaps she will follow your advice. ” “ Oh , this time , ” returned Aramis , “ I haven ’ t seen her ; she is much changed. ” “ In that respect unlike you , my dear Aramis , for you are still the same ; you have still your beautiful dark hair , still your elegant figure , still your feminine hands , which are admirably suited to a prelate. ” “ Yes , ” replied Aramis , “ I am extremely careful of my appearance .
“ My dear Raoul , learn , once for all , that that is a question which is never asked .
Tomorrow , if you will , I will hear your narrative ; but today I wish to nurse you carefully .
On two occasions her fortune has failed her , on two occasions she has found herself discovered and betrayed ; and on these two occasions it was to one fatal genius , sent doubtlessly by the Lord to combat her , that she has succumbed .
At length he saw a dark mass , against which it seemed as if the carriage was about to dash ; but the vehicle turned to one side , leaving the barrier behind and Danglars saw that it was one of the ramparts encircling Rome .
The figure advanced towards the bed and appeared to listen with profound attention .
D ’ Artagnan knew what she wanted .
At the close of the act he therefore went to the baroness .
It would have signified little had the room been empty , but unfortunately it was occupied .
“ I swear , ” he said , with a calm brow and kindly glance , but in a voice still trembling with recent emotion , “ I swear that I no longer bear animosity to those who were once my friends .
By an involuntary movement and in spite of the injunction given , D ’ Artagnan put his horse into a gallop , and in a few strides overtook the carriage ; but the window was hermetically closed , the vision had disappeared .
Next morning _Le Moniteur_ contained the following : “ It was without any foundation that _Le Messager_ yesterday announced the flight of Don Carlos and the revolt of Barcelona .
“ What do you want , sir ? ” said the king .
Formerly they believed themselves sprung from Jupiter , and shielded by their birth ; but nowadays they are not inviolable .
do not surrender , egad !
“ And what cares he for that , ” replied Gaetano with a laugh , “ or any authorities ?
People cry out , ‘ Long live the king !
“ _Pardieu_ , gentlemen , ” said he .
The members , apprised of the sort of presentation which was to be made that evening , were all in attendance .
Sometimes he was delirious , and fancied he saw an old man stretched on a pallet ; he , also , was dying of hunger .
“ All I can say is , ” continued the countess , taking up the _lorgnette_ , and directing it toward the box in question , “ that the gentleman , whose history I am unable to furnish , seems to me as though he had just been dug up ; he looks more like a corpse permitted by some friendly grave-digger to quit his tomb for a while , and revisit this earth of ours , than anything human .
“ They are indeed exquisite , ” he said ; “ but as they are necessarily submitted to the process of deglutition—a function which it is frequently impossible for a fainting person to accomplish—I prefer my own specific. ” “ Undoubtedly , and so should I prefer it , after the effects I have seen produced ; but of course it is a secret , and I am not so indiscreet as to ask it of you. ” “ But I , ” said Monte Cristo , rising as he spoke— “ I am gallant enough to offer it you. ” 30079m “ How kind you are. ” “ Only remember one thing—a small dose is a remedy , a large one is poison .
They used the same precautions in leaving as in entering the house .
“ Monsieur , ” said Albert with affectionate courtesy , “ the count of Château-Renaud knew how much pleasure this introduction would give me ; you are his friend , be ours also. ” “ Well said , ” interrupted Château-Renaud ; “ and pray that , if you should ever be in a similar predicament , he may do as much for you as he did for me. ” “ What has he done ? ” asked Albert .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ Well , let us set out. ” “ How many men does your eminence wish to escort you ? ” “ You say that with four men you will undertake to disperse a hundred low fellows ; as it may happen that we shall have to encounter two hundred , take eight—— ” “ As many as my lord wishes. ” “ I will follow you .
But please to observe I won back the equipage , ” cried Athos .
“ How would you like to have it ?
Oh , the wretched hours I have endured—the torture to which I have submitted when I saw the deadly poison poured into your glass , and how I trembled lest you should drink it before I could find time to throw it away ! ” “ Sir , ” said Valentine , at the height of her terror , “ you say you endured tortures when you saw the deadly poison poured into my glass ; but if you saw this , you must also have seen the person who poured it ? ” “ Yes. ” Valentine raised herself in bed , and drew over her chest , which appeared whiter than snow , the embroidered cambric , still moist with the cold dews of delirium , to which were now added those of terror .
They went out .
“ Was not your majesty warned that it was to take place this morning ? ” “ Then I must die like a common criminal by the hand of the London executioner ? ” “ The London executioner has disappeared , your majesty , but a man has offered his services instead .
I will make you another offer. ” “ What is that ? ” “ I do not offer you a million , because I have it not ; but I will give you a hundred crowns if , the first time you go to Marseilles , you will seek out a young girl named Mercédès , at the Catalans , and give her two lines from me. ” 0120m “ If I took them , and were detected , I should lose my place , which is worth two thousand francs a year ; so that I should be a great fool to run such a risk for three hundred. ” “ Well , ” said Dantès , “ mark this ; if you refuse at least to tell Mercédès I am here , I will some day hide myself behind the door , and when you enter I will dash out your brains with this stool. ” “ Threats ! ” cried the jailer , retreating and putting himself on the defensive ; “ you are certainly going mad .
“ Now if I die , say to D ’ Artagnan that I love him as a son , and embrace him for me .
If I had but the time to train pupils !
“ Monsieur Bertuccio , ” said the count , “ did you never tell me that you had travelled in France ? ” “ In some parts of France—yes , excellency. ” “ You know the environs of Paris , then ? ” “ No , excellency , no , ” returned the steward , with a sort of nervous trembling , which Monte Cristo , a connoisseur in all emotions , rightly attributed to great disquietude .
My dear count , allow me to show you the way. ” They passed silently into the breakfast-room , and everyone took his place .
“ But ” ’ said Madame Danglars , resolving to make a last effort , “ this young man , though a murderer , is an orphan , abandoned by everybody. ” “ So much the worse , or rather , so much the better ; it has been so ordained that he may have none to weep his fate. ” “ But this is trampling on the weak , sir. ” “ The weakness of a murderer ! ” “ His dishonor reflects upon us. ” “ Is not death in my house ? ” “ Oh , sir , ” exclaimed the baroness , “ you are without pity for others , well , then , I tell you they will have no mercy on you ! ” “ Be it so ! ” said Villefort , raising his arms to heaven with a threatening gesture .
This fresh impertinence reached the ears of the cardinal and alarmed him greatly .
Should not a magistrate be not merely the best administrator of the law , but the most crafty expounder of the chicanery of his profession , a steel probe to search hearts , a touchstone to try the gold which in each soul is mingled with more or less of alloy ? ” “ Sir , ” said Villefort , “ upon my word , you overcome me .
In the centre of the cell , in a circle traced with a fragment of plaster detached from the wall , sat a man whose tattered garments scarcely covered him .
While he had been absorbed in thought , they had shipped their oars and hoisted sail ; the boat was now moving with the wind .
thou hast no confidence in me !
Your advice , then , is— ” “ To sell the diamond , ” replied Aramis .
“ These young fellows can none of them drink , ” said Athos , looking at him with pity , “ and yet this is one of the best ! ” Chapter XXVIII .
“ They are soldiers , though , ” resumed De Bragelonne .
I understand what you say ! ” “ That is because we are talking Spanish , my dear friend , ” said Athos .
It will take quite six weeks to unload the cargo , and we can not get you ready for sea until three months after that ; only be back again in three months , for the _Pharaon_ , ” added the owner , patting the young sailor on the back , “ can not sail without her captain. ” “ Without her captain ! ” cried Dantès , his eyes sparkling with animation ; “ pray mind what you say , for you are touching on the most secret wishes of my heart .
And you tell me this magistrate expressed great sympathy and commiseration for you ? ” “ He did. ” “ And the worthy man destroyed your compromising letter ? ” “ Yes. ” “ And then made you swear never to utter the name of Noirtier ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Why , you poor short-sighted simpleton , can you not guess who this Noirtier was , whose very name he was so careful to keep concealed ?
“ How is there still time ? ” asked the man in the cloak .
My father died , but I did not die .
Bravo !
That is agreed upon .
“ Pardon , my Lord , ” said Felton , stopping the duke ; “ but does your Grace know that the name of Charlotte Backson is not the true name of this young woman ? ” “ Yes , sir , I know it , ” replied the duke , dipping the quill in the ink .
“ So , so , ” replied Porthos .
What do you say to this , mother ? ” And Albert took out of a little pocket-book with golden clasps , a remnant of his old fancies , or perhaps a tender souvenir from one of the mysterious and veiled ladies who used to knock at his little door , —Albert took out of this pocket-book a note of 1,000 francs .
“ Wait for me here , all of you ! ” cried M. Morrel ; “ I will take the first conveyance I find , and hurry to Marseilles , whence I will bring you word how all is going on. ” “ That ’ s right ! ” exclaimed a multitude of voices , “ go , and return as quickly as you can ! ” This second departure was followed by a long and fearful state of terrified silence on the part of those who were left behind .
“ In a dungeon. ” “ Which ? ” “ Good Lord !
This last thought of love counseled her to make this last sacrifice .
“ But I can not , ” said she ; “ I am not strong enough ; do you shut it. ” “ Ah , you do well to ask , ” said Eugénie , laughing ; “ I forgot that I was Hercules , and you only the pale Omphale ! ” And the young girl , kneeling on the top , pressed the two parts of the portmanteau together , and Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly passed the bolt of the padlock through .
The tumult now began to increase ; the street was not able to contain the spectators who assembled from every direction ; the crowd invaded the space which the dreaded pikes of the guards had till then kept clear between them and the carriage .
At the bottom of that staircase lies , probably , the cardinal ’ s treasury of which folk tell such wonders , and we should only have to descend , empty a chest , shut the cardinal up in it , double lock it , go away , carrying off as much gold as we could , put back this orange-tree over the place , and no one in the world would ever ask us where our fortune came from—not even the cardinal. ” “ It would be a happy hit for clowns to make , but as it seems to be unworthy of two gentlemen—— ” said Porthos .
You know the history of the Saraband ? ” “ _Pardieu ! _ Know it ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , who knew nothing about it , but who wished to appear to know everything that was going on .
Be tranquil , and go wait for me in my chamber. ” “ But , my Lord— ” “ Go , sir , I command you ! ” At this injunction from his superior , Felton obeyed ; but in going out , he put the knife into his bosom .
What is life to me ? —Very little without you , mother ; for believe me , but for you I should have ceased to live on the day I doubted my father and renounced his name .
“ Bravo ! ” cried Mazarin ; “ they told me that you were the man I wanted .
Oh , ” continued she , placing her hand modestly over her beautiful eyes , “ never !
Sight and hearing were the only senses remaining , and they , like two solitary sparks , remained to animate the miserable body which seemed fit for nothing but the grave ; it was only , however , by means of one of these senses that he could reveal the thoughts and feelings that still occupied his mind , and the look by which he gave expression to his inner life was like the distant gleam of a candle which a traveller sees by night across some desert place , and knows that a living being dwells beyond the silence and obscurity .
“ Grimaud , my good Grimaud ! ” exclaimed Raoul “ here you are at last !
The cardinal could not keep up with them , though with every wish to do so .
At the sight of this slaughter and devastation I became terrified , not for myself—for I , a simple Corsican fisherman , had nothing to fear ; on the contrary , that time was most favorable for us smugglers—but for my brother , a soldier of the empire , returning from the army of the Loire , with his uniform and his epaulets , there was everything to apprehend .
The clock of the Invalides struck one when the carriage which conveyed Madame de Morcerf rolled away on the pavement of the Champs-Élysées , and made Monte Cristo raise his head .
You ought to be brave for two reasons : the first is that you are a Gascon , and the second is that you are my son .
Among them was one of a very singular form , which appeared to have come from a distance .
You have no longer a weapon ; and besides , I am on my guard .
Dantès was a man of great simplicity of thought , and without education ; he could not , therefore , in the solitude of his dungeon , traverse in mental vision the history of the ages , bring to life the nations that had perished , and rebuild the ancient cities so vast and stupendous in the light of the imagination , and that pass before the eye glowing with celestial colors in Martin ’ s Babylonian pictures .
The count followed them with his eyes , his hands resting on the shoulders of the youth , whose height was almost equal to his own ; but as soon as they were out of sight he said : “ Raoul , we set out to-night for Paris. ” “ Eh ? ” cried the young man , turning pale .
So we shall get from him one uniform and a sword. ” “ Marvelous ! ” exclaimed Porthos , looking at the Gascon with the most profound admiration .
Once in France he turned his course toward Paris , and reaching Paris went straight to Rue Tiquetonne .
Besides , what is there astonishing , when you think of the grief I ought to be in , that I shut myself up ? —tell me ! ” “ No , truly—you comfort me. ” “ Come and help me. ” From the same drawer she took a man ’ s complete costume , from the boots to the coat , and a provision of linen , where there was nothing superfluous , but every requisite .
For I have no friend but yourself upon earth , who am neglected and forgotten by my father , harassed and persecuted by my stepmother , and left to the sole companionship of a paralyzed and speechless old man , whose withered hand can no longer press mine , and who can speak to me with the eye alone , although there still lingers in his heart the warmest tenderness for his poor grandchild .
‘ Take in two reefs in the top-sails , ’ cried the captain ; ‘ let go the bowlin ’ s , haul the brace , lower the top-gallant sails , haul out the reef-tackles on the yards. ’ ” 20041m “ That was not enough for those latitudes , ” said the Englishman ; “ I should have taken four reefs in the topsails and furled the spanker. ” His firm , sonorous , and unexpected voice made everyone start .
’ tis not civil war that disunites us .
To this question De Guiche could not respond .
Do what I tell you , and immortality awaits you ! ” Villefort fell on his knees .
Chapter 102 .
At first , Athos supported the association for a time with his own means .
“ That is all very well , and enough for today ; before we proceed further , someone must be informed that you know the ravisher of your wife. ” “ But I have not told you that I know him ! ” cried Bonacieux , in despair .
Maximilian crossed the canal and entered the Rue Meslay by the boulevards .
“ There is the port , ” he murmured .
The Burglary The day following that on which the conversation we have related took place , the Count of Monte Cristo set out for Auteuil , accompanied by Ali and several attendants , and also taking with him some horses whose qualities he was desirous of ascertaining .
They spurred on their horses ; the other cavaliers were only twenty steps from them .
I know him ; not personally , but from having heard the queen speak of him more than once as a brave and loyal gentleman. ” “ You do not fear lest he should betray you to the cardinal ? ” “ Oh , no , certainly not ! ” “ Well , reveal your secret to him , and ask him whether , however important , however valuable , however terrible it may be , you may not confide it to me. ” “ But this secret is not mine , and I can not reveal it in this manner. ” “ You were about to confide it to Monsieur Bonacieux , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with chagrin .
“ Is it my equipment ? ” “ Yes and no , ” replied Mousqueton .
This mystery required an explanation ; at least , so D ’ Artagnan declared to himself .
But the sight of an old man clinging to life with so desperate a courage , gave a fresh turn to his ideas , and inspired him with new courage .
“ Who has taken my piece of glass ? ” asked the duke , frowning .
Bazin !
D ’ Artagnan interpreted it ; with a terrible bound he sprang to the side of Cahusac , crying , “ To me , Monsieur Guardsman ; I will slay you ! ” Cahusac turned .
How he had found grace in the eyes of the minister , he did not know ; but without doubt M. de Cavois would have revealed this to him if the captain of the Guards had found him at home .
The popular banker found that it answered better than count .
The idea of the two soldiers who had abandoned him occurred to his mind , and with them he remembered the assassins of two evenings before .
“ No , no , I wish to do away with that mysterious reputation that you have given me , my dear viscount ; it is tiresome to be always acting Manfred .
“ Well , your publisher is very generous , my dear Aramis , that ’ s all I can say. ” “ How , monsieur ? ” cried Bazin , “ a poem sell so dear as that !
But my mother—no , not my mother ; I mistake—my father intends giving a ball. ” “ A ball at this season ? ” “ Summer balls are fashionable. ” “ If they were not , the countess has only to wish it , and they would become so. ” “ You are right ; You know they are select affairs ; those who remain in Paris in July must be true Parisians .
He answered therefore : “ I think , monsieur le comte , that you had something to communicate to me at your chateau of Bragelonne , and that gentleman ” —he pointed to Aramis— “ had also something to tell me when I was in his convent .
At this moment Planchet entered , to inform his master that the horses were sufficiently refreshed and that it would be possible to sleep at Clermont .
These considerations naturally gave Villefort a feeling of such complete felicity that his mind was fairly dazzled in its contemplation .
“ Presently !
I shall buy a chestnut-colored suit .
On his return home the coadjutor was informed that a young man had come in after his departure and was waiting for him ; he started with delight when , on demanding the name of this young man , he learned that it was Louvieres .
What the devil can you do with all that ? ” “ Oh , it is no trouble to spend that ; and I am like you , I want capital. ” “ Capital ? —yes—I understand—everyone would like capital. ” “ Well , and I shall get it. ” “ Who will give it to you—your prince ? ” “ Yes , my prince .
march forward ! ” But eloquent as he might be , the eloquence of the grandson of Henry IV .
It might be called a magnificent prison .
“ Charles Stuart , ” said the colonel of the English regiment , approaching the king , who had just put on the insignia of royalty , “ do you yield yourself a prisoner ? ” “ Colonel Tomlison , ” said Charles , “ kings can not yield ; the man alone submits to force. ” “ Your sword. ” The king drew his sword and broke it on his knee .
“ And her son ? ” “ Florentin , his valet , thinks he is going to do the same. ” “ Come this way. ” Monte Cristo took Bertuccio into his study , wrote the letter we have seen , and gave it to the steward .
Oh , now I may say so ! ” “ So much the better , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ as that poor Edmond will not have long to be loved by you .
What refreshment can I offer ?
It struck ten .
“ What diabolical villainy you have performed here , ” said Porthos , when the officer had rejoined his companions and the four friends found themselves alone .
“ You did well to defend the honor of a woman ; and as I am going to the Red Dovecot myself , I shall know if you have told me the truth. ” “ Monseigneur , ” said Athos , haughtily , “ we are gentlemen , and to save our heads we would not be guilty of a falsehood. ” “ Therefore I do not doubt what you say , Monsieur Athos , I do not doubt it for a single instant ; but , ” added he , “ to change the conversation , was this lady alone ? ” “ The lady had a cavalier shut up with her , ” said Athos , “ but as notwithstanding the noise , this cavalier did not show himself , it is to be presumed that he is a coward. ” “ ‘ Judge not rashly ’ , says the Gospel , ” replied the cardinal .
“ ARAMIS. ” “ If that is all , it is easily done , ” said Porthos .
The whole world conspires to break our bonds .
He dressed entirely in black , with the exception of his white tie , and his funeral appearance was only mitigated by the slight line of red ribbon which passed almost imperceptibly through his button-hole , and appeared like a streak of blood traced with a delicate brush .
When seven o ’ clock came , Dantès ’ agony really began .
Valentine witnessed this scene with a sentiment of stupefaction .
They were stopped and questioned at the gate by which they sought to enter the city , but Athos replied , in excellent English , that they had been sent forward by Colonel Harrison to announce to his colleague , Monsieur Bridge , the approach of the king .
Albert vented his anger on a pile of newspapers , which he sent flying all over the office by switching them violently with his stick ; after which ebullition he departed—not , however , without walking several times to the door of the press-room , as if he had half a mind to enter .
“ You see , ” said the king , “ that it is useless for you to resist .
I take as much interest in the pursuit of some whim as you do , M. Danglars , in promoting a new railway line ; you , M. de Villefort , in condemning a culprit to death ; you , M. Debray , in pacifying a kingdom ; you , M. de Château-Renaud , in pleasing a woman ; and you , Morrel , in breaking a horse that no one can ride .
Convinced that the ship was full of powder instead of having a cargo of wine , Grimaud hastened to awake D ’ Artagnan , who had no sooner beheld him than he perceived that something extraordinary had taken place .
Franz took it with a nervous trembling , and repeated the letters of the alphabet successively , until he came to M. At that letter the old man signified “ Yes. ” “ M , ” repeated Franz .
Athos remained alone in the vast chamber , where , according to the cardinal ’ s directions , he was treated with all the courtesy due to a nobleman .
“ What in the devil is the matter with you , my friend ? ” said Porthos .
“ You will , of course , dispose of it in some way or other ? ” “ Yes. ” “ In favor of some member of your family ? ” “ No. ” “ Do you intend devoting it to charitable purposes , then ? ” pursued the notary .
Athos followed the footman , who led him through a long succession of apartments and paused at length before a closed door .
She continued to look at him for nearly ten minutes , and in these ten minutes the immovable guardian never turned round once .
“ Yes. ” “ Well , as for me , I prefer Hannibal. ” “ And why , pray , Master La Ramee ? ” asked the duke .
The wretched man was sentenced to the galleys for life , and I was immediately set at liberty. ” “ And then it was , I presume , ” said Monte Cristo “ that you came to me as the bearer of a letter from the Abbé Busoni ? ” “ It was , your excellency ; the benevolent abbé took an evident interest in all that concerned me .
“ But , ” said Danglars , “ there is still a sum of one hundred thousand francs ? ” “ Oh , a mere nothing , ” said Monte Cristo .
“ To say that I shall live here , like the Mercédès of other times , gaining my bread by labor , would not be true , nor would you believe me .
“ For my part , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I say this must come to an end ; murderer , as you were , of your uncle !
These bitter-sweet pleasantries lasted ten minutes , sometimes longer , but always finished thus : Monsieur de Chavigny , turning toward the door , used to call out : “ Halloo !
Then he saw through the whole thing .
Both were free from the fear of pursuit ; nobody ever came into Milady ’ s apartment before nine o ’ clock , and it would require three hours to go from the castle to London .
You were walking one evening in M. de Villefort ’ s garden ; from what you relate , I suppose it to have been the evening of Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s death .
Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort , much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements .
“ Now , ” said she , “ listen to me. ” The request was needless .
Bertuccio , crouched in the corner of the carriage , began to examine with a feverish anxiety every house they passed .
1.E.9 .
Madame du Vallon left things in much disorder ; I am not much of a hand at figures , so that I live almost from hand to mouth. ” “ He is afraid I have come to borrow money , ” thought D ’ Artagnan .
To sleep after the manner I speak of , absolute calm and silence are necessary , and then a certain preparation—— ” “ I know—the famous hashish ! ” “ Precisely .
“ Oh , do not fear the scaffold , madame , ” said the magistrate ; “ I will not dishonor you , since that would be dishonor to myself ; no , if you have heard me distinctly , you will understand that you are not to die on the scaffold. ” “ No , I do not understand ; what do you mean ? ” stammered the unhappy woman , completely overwhelmed .
Perhaps that famous barony will have something to do with our interview this evening .
I was at school at the time , and the adventure appeared to me to be cruel for the king. ” “ Which would not prevent me , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ if I knew where the Duke of Buckingham was , from taking him by the hand and conducting him to the queen , were it only to enrage the cardinal , and if we could find means to play him a sharp turn , I vow that I would voluntarily risk my head in doing it. ” “ And did the mercer * , ” rejoined Athos , “ tell you , D ’ Artagnan , that the queen thought that Buckingham had been brought over by a forged letter ? ” * Haberdasher “ She is afraid so. ” “ Wait a minute , then , ” said Aramis .
But was it on her own account , or on account of another , that she exposed herself to such hazards ?
God beholds your devotion and my martyrdom , and believe me , both will have their reward .
Grimaud had tried to waken the stable boys , and the stable boys had beaten him .
What do you say ? ” “ That my orders go far , madame ; and that I am authorized to seek for the suspected paper , even on the person of your Majesty. ” “ What horror ! ” cried the queen .
You know something of that , as well as I do , I think .
come with us , ” said Albert .
But as regards the letter of advice , I am charmed to find that it has reached you ; that will spare me the troublesome and disagreeable task of coming to you for money myself .
“ But what do you think of the music ? ” “ What music ? ” “ Why , the music you have been listening to. ” “ Oh , it is well enough as the production of a human composer , sung by featherless bipeds , to quote the late Diogenes. ” “ From which it would seem , my dear count , that you can at pleasure enjoy the seraphic strains that proceed from the seven choirs of paradise ? ” 30097m “ You are right , in some degree ; when I wish to listen to sounds more exquisitely attuned to melody than mortal ear ever yet listened to , I go to sleep. ” “ Then sleep here , my dear count .
Bonacieux was known to belong to the queen ; the duke wore the uniform of the Musketeers of M. de Tréville , who , as we have said , were that evening on guard .
The people were shouting and running about with torches .
“ And that was Policar Morrel , my uncle , who was afterwards a captain .
We bring to his widow his sword and cross of honor .
The similarity in the symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances is so great , that were I obliged to affirm by oath what I have now stated , I should hesitate ; I therefore repeat to you , I speak not to a magistrate , but to a friend .
“ But I am really glad to have seen such a sight ; and I understand what the count said—that when you have once habituated yourself to a similar spectacle , it is the only one that causes you any emotion. ” 20175m “ Without reflecting that this is the only moment in which you can study character , ” said the count ; “ on the steps of the scaffold death tears off the mask that has been worn through life , and the real visage is disclosed .
“ I asked you , ” continued Villefort , in a perfectly calm tone , “ where you conceal the poison by the aid of which you have killed my father-in-law , M. de Saint-Méran , my mother-in-law , Madame de Saint-Méran , Barrois , and my daughter Valentine. ” “ Ah , sir , ” exclaimed Madame de Villefort , clasping her hands , “ what do you say ? ” “ It is not for you to interrogate , but to answer. ” “ Is it to the judge or to the husband ? ” stammered Madame de Villefort .
It seemed to him that thus he better guarded the unfinished opening .
He may have fallen from his horse , he may have cut a caper from the deck ; he may have traveled so fast against the wind as to have brought on a violent catarrh .
He felt something like a secret joy at being forever relieved of this dangerous accomplice .
D ’ Artagnan passed to the head of the column , and leaving his friends under the guard of Porthos , went straight to Harrison , who recognized him as having met him at Cromwell ’ s and received him as politely as a man of his breeding and disposition could .
Villefort , thunderstruck , fell upon his knees ; the child dropped from his arms , and rolled on the floor by the side of its mother .
“ May I also be allowed , ” said Morcerf , “ to pay my respects to Mademoiselle Danglars ? ” “ Wait a moment , ” said the banker , stopping the young man ; “ do you hear that delightful cavatina ?
Unfortunately for D ’ Artagnan , among the spectators was one of his Eminence ’ s Guardsmen , who , still irritated by the defeat of his companions , which had happened only the day before , had promised himself to seize the first opportunity of avenging it .
“ He has broken his ribs , ” said the commander , in a low voice .
This corroboration of the lesson he had just received put the finishing stroke to the wonder and stupefaction of M. Baptistin .
Coquenard had met Porthos and seen what a superb appearance he made upon his handsome Spanish _genet_ , she would not have regretted the bleeding she had inflicted upon the strongbox of her husband .
I stabbed to the heart the headsman of Bethune , without mercy or pity , and he was the least guilty of you all. ” With these words the young man went out and descended the stairs with sufficient calmness to pass unobserved ; then upon the lowest landing place he passed Tony , leaning over the balustrade , waiting only for a call from his master to mount to his room .
Number 34 and Number 27 Chapter 16 .
Perhaps we shall soon meet on the field of battle ; but in the meantime we shall part good friends , I hope. ” “ Yes , my Lord ; but with the hope of soon becoming enemies. ” “ Be satisfied ; I promise you that. ” “ I depend upon your word , my Lord. ” D ’ Artagnan bowed to the duke , and made his way as quickly as possible to the riverside .
Athos said a word to one of the vergers , who bowed and proceeded toward the basement .
“ Come in , ” said Franz .
He resembles the old Conventionalist of ’ 93 , who said to Napoleon , in 1814 , ‘ You bend because your empire is a young stem , weakened by rapid growth .
Louis XIII. , like every weak mind , was wanting in generosity .
The count has a mind above vulgar desires and earthly passions .
The count is an affable man ; besides , he is unarmed ; at the first word from his eminence the two soldiers about him would run to his assistance. ” “ Two soldiers , ” said D ’ Artagnan , seeming to remember something , “ two soldiers , yes ; that , then , is why I hear two men called every evening and see them walking sometimes for half an hour , under my window. ” “ That is it ; they are waiting for the cardinal , or rather for Bernouin , who comes to call them when the cardinal goes out. ” “ Fine-looking men , upon my word ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Monsieur the Principal of Amiens , Monsieur the Curate of Montdidier , and I are arguing certain theological questions in which we have been much interested ; I shall be delighted to have your opinion. ” “ The opinion of a swordsman can have very little weight , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , who began to be uneasy at the turn things were taking , “ and you had better be satisfied , believe me , with the knowledge of these gentlemen. ” The two men in black bowed in their turn .
So long as I hoped you were working for the good of our house and for the fortune of our daughter , I philosophically closed my eyes ; but as you have transformed that house into a vast ruin I will not be the foundation of another man ’ s fortune .
Immediately , without any other signal , the carriages moved on , flowing on towards the Corso , down all the streets , like torrents pent up for a while , which again flow into the parent river ; and the immense stream again continued its course between its two granite banks .
“ Every man that ’ s born must fulfil his destiny. ” “ If it be not an indelicate question , ” resumed D ’ Artagnan , “ have you grown rich ? ” “ Oh , Heaven !
He took the key , which was customarily given him as one of the family , ascended the stairs , and introduced Mme .
“ Yes , at present , ” continued Lord de Winter , “ you will remain in this castle .
“ I beg you to do so , ” replied Albert .
The pistol fell from his hands .
The young man looked , bowed in obedience , and then went to Teresa , and invited her to dance in a quadrille directed by the count ’ s daughter .
“ Help , ” cried Caderousse ; “ I am murdered ! ” “ We are here ; —take courage. ” “ Ah , it ’ s all over !
Ah !
To answer you would be to forget it .
The king took it with a trembling hand , looked for the address , which was wanting , became very pale , opened it slowly , then seeing by the first words that it was addressed to the King of Spain , he read it rapidly .
Meanwhile , as the little troop drew nearer to Lens , the noise of the cannon sounded louder .
Athos threw a piece of money to the goatkeeper to withdraw .
“ And that other gentleman ?
“ They are binding her ; they are going to drag her away , ” cried D ’ Artagnan to himself , springing up from the floor .
And could you not stop your fatal career , if you did not do evil for the infinite and supreme joy of doing it ?
There they found a brig ready to set sail , upon the deck of which they recognized Mordaunt walking up and down impatiently .
The lower rooms were entirely filled with Kourchid ’ s troops ; that is to say , with our enemies .
‘ Is there anyone in the lobby ? ’ said the president .
I see it in the depths of the inner cavern .
In short , the king , impatient , as has been said , had come by forced marches , and had that moment arrived with all his household and a reinforcement of ten thousand troops .
But with the rapidity of thought D ’ Artagnan seized Athos by the waist , and followed by Porthos with Aramis , leaped down from the benches , rushed into the passages , and flying down the staircase were lost in the crowd without , while the muskets within were pointed on some three thousand spectators , whose piteous cries and noisy alarm stopped the impulse already given to bloodshed .
“ Fernand would have been court-martialed if Napoleon had remained on the throne , but his action was rewarded by the Bourbons .
He came up with her before she had traversed a third of the street .
You incline me to think so , ” said the king .
As for me , I can never forget the pale complexion and black eyes of the young soldier , and whenever the angel of death summons me to another world , I am quite sure I shall recognize Selim .
“ Well , one day when she was hunting with her husband , ” continued Athos , in a low voice , and speaking very quickly , “ she fell from her horse and fainted .
But what is the matter , Albert ?
“ Sir , ” said he , “ that man has been here. ” “ What man ? ” said Andrea carelessly , apparently forgetting him whom he but too well recollected .
She crushed the paper in her hand , and turning with flashing eyes upon Kitty , she cried , “ What is this letter ? ” “ The answer to Madame ’ s , ” replied Kitty , all in a tremble .
May I presume to ask whether you have long possessed it ? ” “ It has been in the family a very long while , ” returned Monte Cristo , “ a sort of treasure expressly forbidden to be touched for a certain period of years , during which the accumulated interest has doubled the capital .
To this Cavalcanti replied by saying that for some time past his son had lived independently of him , that he had his own horses and carriages , and that not having come together , it would not be difficult for them to leave separately .
And perhaps , my God ! ” added he , with that misanthropic tone which was peculiar to him , “ perhaps sooner than you wish. ” Half past seven had sounded .
But you , my dear Athos—you , who so generously distributed the Englishman ’ s pistoles , which were our legitimate property—what do you mean to do ? ” “ I am satisfied with having killed that fellow , my boy , seeing that it is blessed bread to kill an Englishman ; but if I had pocketed his pistoles , they would have weighed me down like a remorse. ” “ Go to , my dear Athos ; you have truly inconceivable ideas. ” “ Let it pass .
I had prepared it beforehand , for I am much in want of money today. ” And Monte Cristo placed the bonds in his pocket with one hand , while with the other he held out the receipt to Danglars .
Ascribe to men , then , what is happening , and not to God .
Cavalcanti ’ s ? ” asked Beauchamp .
D ’ Artagnan glanced at the dinner service .
Cocles appeared , and the young man bade him conduct the stranger to M. Morrel ’ s apartment .
Well , will you take me , or shall I take Edward ? ” Madame de Villefort had multiplied her questions in order to gain one answer , but to all her inquiries M. de Villefort remained mute and cold as a statue .
“ What ’ s the knot for ? ” thought Dantès .
He then took the cabbage to the room where he had rabbits—for the Abbé Adelmonte had a collection of rabbits , cats , and guinea-pigs , fully as fine as his collection of vegetables , flowers , and fruit .
They have some business with you , I think , from what they told me the day before yesterday .
Now , madame , I took the precaution of drawing out your money the day before yesterday ; it is not long ago , you see , and I was in continual expectation of being called on to deliver up my accounts .
“ Then is it not , ” resumed the duke , “ the Superintendent Emery , who gave his son , when he was married , three hundred thousand francs and a house , compared to which the Tuileries are a heap of ruins and the Louvre a paltry building ? ” The dog again shook his head as if to say “ no. ” “ Then , ” said the prisoner , “ let ’ s think who it can be .
At these balconies are three hundred thousand spectators—Romans , Italians , strangers from all parts of the world , the united aristocracy of birth , wealth , and genius .
Was it from London you brought that beautiful diamond that glitters on your finger ?
There is no doubt of that .
“ Yes , madame ; only it seems to me that your majesty goes too far in engaging to load us with a friendship so far above our merit .
I am sure you would not have forced me to come .
“ I come for your commands , my lord , ” he said .
Are you no longer my master , or have I ceased to be your slave ? ” Monte Cristo returned her smile .
To command inferior beings was rather a humiliation than a pleasure for her .
The time had at length arrived ; two feet of earth removed , and Dantès ’ fate would be decided .
Then the bandit thrice imitated the cry of a crow ; a croak answered this signal .
Oh , yes , especially beautiful .
We shall soon see how to dispose , ” he continued , “ of the parliament !
The queen remained for a short time to receive the compliments of the city dignitaries and to reply to the salutations of the ladies .
Morrel , I believe ? ” said Villefort .
“ What the devil ! ” continued the king .
The major seated himself , therefore , by the side of Danglars , who was more and more charmed with the ideas of order and economy which ruled this man , and yet who , being able to allow his son 60,000 francs a year , might be supposed to possess a fortune of 500,000 or 600,000 livres .
I made a vow at a time when I little thought I should ever be able to accomplish it , ” said the unknown with a singular smile ; “ and I made some others also which I hope I may fulfil in due season. ” Although Sinbad pronounced these words with much calmness , his eyes gave forth gleams of extraordinary ferocity .
As to Grimaud , he received orders to place himself behind the four friends in order to reload their weapons .
The artful creature at once comprehended that she was injuring herself by allowing him thus to read her soul ; she collected her features , and in a complaining voice said : “ In the name of heaven , sir , tell me if it is to you , if it is to your government , if it is to an enemy I am to attribute the violence that is done me ? ” “ No violence will be offered to you , madame , and what happens to you is the result of a very simple measure which we are obliged to adopt with all who land in England. ” “ Then you don ’ t know me , sir ? ” “ It is the first time I have had the honor of seeing you. ” “ And on your honor , you have no cause of hatred against me ? ” “ None , I swear to you. ” There was so much serenity , coolness , mildness even , in the voice of the young man , that Milady felt reassured .
The physician who prepared for me the remedy I have twice successfully taken , was no other than the celebrated Cabanis , and he predicted a similar end for me. ” 0233m “ The physician may be mistaken ! ” exclaimed Dantès .
The duke frowned , the officer felt the point of the poniard , which , having penetrated through his clothes , was close to his heart .
She fell into so deep a reverie that her eyes gradually closed .
“ But would you ruin me ? ” “ If I sought your ruin , fool , I should drag you to the first guard-house ; besides , when that note is delivered , in all probability you will have no more to fear .
Ask M. de Morcerf into the drawing-room , ” said he to Baptistin , while he led the beautiful Greek girl to a private staircase .
I have heard that she met with a strange adventure in I don ’ t know what village , with I don ’ t know what curé , of whom she asked hospitality and who , having but one chamber , and taking her for a cavalier , offered to share it with her .
They called upon him then to retire ; but he answered that he was a Musketeer at heart , entirely devoted to your Majesty , and that therefore he would remain with Messieurs the Musketeers. ” “ Brave young man ! ” murmured the king .
What a scandal !
Fortunately , for me , the handwriting was disguised. ” “ Then you were aware of Dantès being engaged in a conspiracy ? ” “ Not I .
The world is a sepulcher ! ’ ” “ Alas , you will find it so yourself , ” said Aramis , with a sigh .
“ Their vows were sacred and irrevocable .
When you spoke to me of experiencing a vague and indefinite sense of coming danger , I placed myself blindly and devotedly at your service , asking no other reward than the pleasure of being useful to you ; and have I ever since , by word or look , given you cause of regret for having selected me from the numbers that would willingly have sacrificed their lives for you ?
You will return after three or four years with a Russian princess for a bride , and no one will think more of what occurred yesterday than if it had happened sixteen years ago. ” “ Thank you , my dear Beauchamp , thank you for the excellent feeling which prompts your advice ; but it can not be .
She returned to Louise , took up the portmanteau , which she had placed for a moment on the ground , and they reached the archway under the shadow of the wall .
He then rolled them separately and put them in a hat , which he handed to Mordaunt .
They came to an opening behind a clump of bushes and in the midst of a pile of rocks , by which a man could scarcely pass .
Die in peace ! ” Lord de Winter advanced in his turn .
You will excuse us , sir , but we are told that a battle is expected and we do not wish to arrive the day after it. ” “ Go , my young sirs , ” said the sick man , “ and may you both be blessed for your piety .
This done , he impatiently awaited the return of his companions .
And yet , as she could scarcely breathe , she rose and went towards a looking-glass .
The unfortunate woman was exhausted , not by fatigue , but by terror , and when D ’ Artagnan placed his hand upon her shoulder , she sank upon one knee , crying in a choking voice , “ Kill me , if you please , you shall know nothing ! ” D ’ Artagnan raised her by passing his arm round her waist ; but as he felt by her weight she was on the point of fainting , he made haste to reassure her by protestations of devotedness .
D ’ Artagnan and Planchet took each a post horse , and a postillion rode before them .
“ The bastion St. Gervais , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ from behind which the Rochellais annoyed our workmen. ” “ Was that affair hot ? ” “ Yes , moderately so .
“ That Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is a very brave man , mother , ” said the young king .
Like all upstarts , he had had recourse to a great deal of haughtiness to maintain his position .
Pray tell me , is it sympathy of heart ? ” “ No ; of taste , ” continued Franz gravely .
For who is there who does not say to himself , in a society as incongruously organized as ours , ‘ Perhaps some day I shall have to do with the king ’ s attorney ’ ? ” “ But can you not say that , sir ?
I do not dare offer to share my apartments with you , as I shared yours at Rome—I , who do not profess egotism , but am yet egotist _par excellence_ ; for , except myself , these rooms would not hold a shadow more , unless that shadow were feminine. ” “ Ah , ” said the count , “ that is a most conjugal reservation ; I recollect that at Rome you said something of a projected marriage .
“ Yes , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ from this very day ; and mind , if the wine is bad , we will send him to find better. ” “ We must use , and not abuse , ” said Aramis , sententiously .
Have you brought your arms ? ” “ I ? —what for ?
Madame Danglars threw a rapid and inquiring glance which could only be interpreted by Monte Cristo , around the courtyard , over the peristyle , and across the front of the house , then , repressing a slight emotion , which must have been seen on her countenance if she had not kept her color , she ascended the steps , saying to Morrel : “ Sir , if you were a friend of mine , I should ask you if you would sell your horse. ” Morrel smiled with an expression very like a grimace , and then turned round to Monte Cristo , as if to ask him to extricate him from his embarrassment .
But you know him , M. de Morcerf. ” “ Is it that excellent M. Bertuccio , who understands hiring windows so well ? ” “ Yes , you saw him the day I had the honor of receiving you ; he has been a soldier , a smuggler—in fact , everything .
went without recompense. ” The duke ’ s endeavors evinced the best intention in the world , but one of the precautions taken at Vincennes was that of allowing prisoners to keep no money .
gentlemen , here is the letter conveyed to me by Lord de Winter .
I could extend my occupation as a fisherman , might get a place as clerk in a warehouse , and become in time a dealer myself. ” “ You could do no such thing , Fernand ; you are a soldier , and if you remain at the Catalans it is because there is no war ; so remain a fisherman , and contented with my friendship , as I can not give you more. ” “ Well , I will do better , Mercédès .
Let me see .
He knows all !
At length a slight color tinged the livid cheeks , consciousness returned to the dull , open eyeballs , a faint sigh issued from the lips , and the sufferer made a feeble effort to move .
His eye , elate with happiness , was reading eagerly the tearful gaze of Haydée , when suddenly the door opened .
“ But yourself , monsieur , ” said Athos , who began to be annoyed by this inquisition , “ give me , I beg you , the proof that you have the right to question me. ” “ Your name ? ” repeated the cavalier a second time , letting his cloak fall , and leaving his face uncovered .
1.C .
Aramis went off at once , begging Athos not to remain alone within reach of D ’ Artagnan and Porthos ; a piece of advice which was received with a contemptuous smile .
“ Here we are , ” said the Gascon .
My sister would be bathed in tears and fainting ; I could not bear to see her suffer .
“ And you are afraid I shall be unhappy ? ” “ Yes. ” “ You do not like M. Franz ? ” The eyes repeated several times , “ No , no , no. ” “ Then you are vexed with the engagement ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Well , listen , ” said Valentine , throwing herself on her knees , and putting her arm round her grandfather ’ s neck , “ I am vexed , too , for I do not love M. Franz d ’ Épinay. ” An expression of intense joy illumined the old man ’ s eyes .
The road which the carriage now traversed was the ancient Appian Way , and bordered with tombs .
It was then observable that the substance was greenish .
‘ Stop , ’ said Selim , seeing that she was about to go out ; ‘ you see I have not yet received the ring , ’ — ‘ True , ’ said my mother .
“ You wish to destroy yourself , ” said the count ; “ you have written it. ” “ Well , ” said Morrel , changing his expression of calmness for one of violence— “ well , and if I do intend to turn this pistol against myself , who shall prevent me—who will dare prevent me ?
“ And you paid him out of the two hundred francs I left you ? ” The old man nodded .
Whatever you say. ” “ Sir , ” replied the Englishman , laughing , “ I am like my house , and do not do such things—no , the commission I ask is quite different. ” “ Name it , sir , I beg. ” “ You are the inspector of prisons ? ” “ I have been so these fourteen years. ” “ You keep the registers of entries and departures ? ” “ I do. ” “ To these registers there are added notes relative to the prisoners ? ” “ There are special reports on every prisoner. ” “ Well , sir , I was educated at Rome by a poor devil of an abbé , who disappeared suddenly .
“ For me ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , seizing the letter .
Teresa saw herself rich , superbly attired , and attended by a train of liveried domestics .
The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund .
“ Monsieur du Vallon , I commend his eminence to your care. ” “ Be quite at ease , ” said Porthos , holding out his hand , which D ’ Artagnan took and shook in his .
Falconers are declining .
“ Well , it is not that the man is more ugly , more foolish , or more disagreeable than any other ; no , M. Andrea Cavalcanti may appear to those who look at men ’ s faces and figures as a very good specimen of his kind .
Scarcely had he gone ten steps when his ears began to tingle , a faintness seized him , a cloud of blood passed over his eyes , and he fell in the middle of the street , crying still , “ Coward !
He has received visits from the coadjutor , from Madame de Longueville , and the Prince de Conti ; Madame de Chevreuse and Madame de Vendome have left their names at his door .
The Villefort vault formed a square of white stones , about twenty feet high ; an interior partition separated the two families , and each apartment had its entrance door .
I never lose a note of this opera if I can avoid it ; the music of _William Tell_ is so sweet. ” Chapter 89 .
If he were to lose them—— ” “ Well , and if he were to lose them ? ” said Monte Cristo .
“ I thought , ” said Franz to the count , “ that you told me there would be but one execution. ” “ I told you true , ” replied he coldly .
Then he went to see his mother , who since the events of the day before had refused to see anyone , and had kept her room .
Porthos was the first who came to himself .
We say the gravel he trod under his feet , for D ’ Artagnan made these reflections while walking solitarily along a pretty little road which led from the camp to the village of Angoutin .
This corridor was guarded , not by a sentinel , but by a confidential servant , through whom , in case of urgency , Charles could communicate instantly with his faithful subject .
“ You like M. Maximilian Morrel , do you not , grandpapa ? ” asked Valentine .
The house , with kitchens and cellars below , had above the ground floor , two stories and attics .
The count received him with his habitual smile .
During the three weeks that he has been with me , I have only had to reproach him with one thing—being too severe with the prisoners. ” “ And who is this Cerberus ? ” “ A certain Monsieur Grimaud , my lord. ” “ And what was he before he went to Vincennes ? ” “ He was in the country , as I was told by the person who recommended him to me. ” “ And who recommended this man to you ? ” “ The steward of the Duc de Grammont. ” “ He is not a gossip , I hope ? ” “ Lord a mercy , my lord !
Good !
But send me word should you be arrested , for then I will return directly. ” “ Why do you not take your chance and be arrested with me ? ” “ No , I thank you. ” “ Should we , by being arrested , be all four together again , we should not , I am not sure , be twenty-four hours in prison without getting free. ” “ My friend , since I killed Chatillon , adored of the ladies of Saint Germain , I am too great a celebrity not to fear a prison doubly .
Danglars had not intended starting so late , or he would have remained ; he put his head out and asked the postilion how long it would be before they reached the next town .
“ The poniard was pointed at the sixth rib and buried up to the hilt in his body .
Our readers will follow us along the only street of this little village , and enter with us one of the houses , which is sunburned to the beautiful dead-leaf color peculiar to the buildings of the country , and within coated with whitewash , like a Spanish posada .
“ Sir , ” said he , “ do you suppose for a moment that a man can sustain a physical shock , such as M. Noirtier has received , without any detriment to his mental faculties ? ” “ It is not exactly that , sir , ” said the notary , “ which makes me uneasy , but the difficulty will be in wording his thoughts and intentions , so as to be able to get his answers. ” “ You must see that to be an utter impossibility , ” said Villefort .
do not go away ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , impelled by one of those irresistible impulses which showed the nobility of his nature , the native brightness of his character ; “ I swear that I would give the last drop of my blood and the last fragment of my limbs to preserve the friendship of such a friend as you , Athos—of such a man as you , Aramis. ” And he threw himself into the arms of Athos .
“ You are not convinced yet ? ” “ I hope at least , that you may be mistaken. ” “ Shall you see the king again ? ” “ Perhaps. ” “ Would you pass in his eyes for a prophet ? ” “ Prophets of evil are not in favor at the court , father. ” “ True , but some day they do them justice ; and supposing a second restoration , you would then pass for a great man. ” “ Well , what should I say to the king ? ” “ Say this to him : ‘ Sire , you are deceived as to the feeling in France , as to the opinions of the towns , and the prejudices of the army ; he whom in Paris you call the Corsican ogre , who at Nevers is styled the usurper , is already saluted as Bonaparte at Lyons , and emperor at Grenoble .
As to the horse , we can easily find some excuse for its disappearance .
It was those very terrible old days that made the present so excessively delightful , and the blow was so great he rushed out , overcome , and forgot to shut the door .
I really believe you are a man , and a violent one , too. ” “ And you , you are a woman—a miserable woman , stupid and brutal .
In that case I can comprehend the length of the conversation. ” Felton started ; and Milady felt she was lost if she did not come to the assistance of the disconcerted Puritan .
At the end of a long corridor , with which the door communicated , and which formed the antechamber , was , on the right , Albert ’ s breakfast-room , looking into the court , and on the left the salon , looking into the garden .
“ Certainly , we are friends , ” he replied ; “ why should we not be ? ” The answer was so little like the one Mercédès desired , that she turned away to give vent to a sigh , which sounded more like a groan .
Farewell. ” He looked at Aramis and made a special sign to him with his head .
Although she had eaten nothing in the morning , the dinner was brought in at its usual time .
“ But , ” said Morrel , “ I thought this mixture , of which you now take four spoonfuls , was prepared for M. Noirtier ? ” “ I know it is very bitter , ” said Valentine ; “ so bitter , that all I drink afterwards appears to have the same taste. ” Noirtier looked inquiringly at his granddaughter .
“ It must have lost its ferocity in the second generation .
“ My God , ” said she , “ what a senseless fanatic !
And when I told you I had foreseen the result , it is the honor of your visit I alluded to. ” “ So much the better .
As he approached it , Noirtier ’ s gaze followed him , and his eyes appeared of such a fiery brightness that Villefort felt them pierce to the depths of his heart .
Signor Pastrini informed them that business had called him to Civita Vecchia .
“ Ah !
‘ But whoever you may be , I charge you not to advance another step. ’ — ‘ Long live the emperor ! ’ said the figure .
I was still unable to divine for what reason M. de Villefort had this spade in his hands , when he stopped close to the thicket where I was , glanced round , and began to dig a hole in the earth .
He drew back the bolt of his door , and almost directly an old lady entered , unannounced , carrying her shawl on her arm , and her bonnet in her hand .
You have not deceived me !
No , Albert , take my advice .
Are you ambitious ?
Conversational .
One only is still not in our power and braves us .
“ Yes , ” replied he , while he did the honors of the supper with much ease and grace— “ yes , he is a poor devil who is much devoted to me , and does all he can to prove it .
‘ No , ’ was the old man ’ s reply , ‘ I will not leave this house , for my poor dear boy loves me better than anything in the world ; and if he gets out of prison he will come and see me the first thing , and what would he think if I did not wait here for him ? ’ I heard all this from the window , for I was anxious that Mercédès should persuade the old man to accompany her , for his footsteps over my head night and day did not leave me a moment ’ s repose. ” “ But did you not go upstairs and try to console the poor old man ? ” asked the abbé .
To this question the smugglers replied that , although successful in landing their cargo in safety , they had scarcely done so when they received intelligence that a guard-ship had just quitted the port of Toulon and was crowding all sail towards them .
_Holà_ , Bazin , come here this minute. ” Bazin appeared on the threshold , dull and spiritless .
Charles , leaning on a table , was gazing at a medallion of his wife and daughter ; he was waiting first for Juxon , then for martyrdom .
The concierge held out the strips of cloth upon which the Abbé Faria had spread the riches of his mind .
The officer saw that the baggage was fastened carefully behind the carriage ; and this operation ended , he took his place beside Milady , and shut the door .
“ Well , I should think so , since the count has found him a false father—since the count gives him four thousand francs a month , and leaves him 500,000 francs in his will. ” “ Ah , yes , ” said the factitious abbé , who began to understand ; “ and what name does the young man bear meanwhile ? ” “ Andrea Cavalcanti. ” “ Is it , then , that young man whom my friend the Count of Monte Cristo has received into his house , and who is going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars ? ” “ Exactly. ” “ And you suffer that , you wretch ! —you , who know his life and his crime ? ” “ Why should I stand in a comrade ’ s way ? ” said Caderousse .
Let us wait ; and , as I said before , let us speak of yourself .
The officer conversed a few instants with the captain , gave him several papers , of which he was the bearer , to read , and upon the order of the merchant captain the whole crew of the vessel , both passengers and sailors , were called upon deck .
But for D ’ Artagnan all aspects were clothed happily , all ideas wore a smile , all shades were diaphanous .
A learned man , before whom the last circumstance was mentioned as a fact , declared he had seen the quarries in question , which gave great weight to assertions hitherto somewhat doubtful , but which now assumed the garb of reality .
The House at Auteuil Chapter 44 .
“ Oh , ” murmured the count , “ shall I then be permitted to love again ?
Happiness almost stifles me ! ” The two friends began to dance around the venerable St. Chrysostom , kicking about famously the sheets of the thesis , which had fallen on the floor .
I shall be in the lobby when this note is delivered to you. ’ “ ‘ And who is this witness , or rather this enemy ? ’ asked the count , in a tone in which there was a visible alteration .
If she had not yet taken any repose , he at least was already up .
“ Close by here , monsieur , ” replied the notary— “ a little beyond Passy ; a charming situation , in the heart of the Bois de Boulogne. ” “ So near as that ? ” said the Count ; “ but that is not in the country .
“ Grimaud , ” said Athos , still on the breach , “ another musket ! ” Grimaud immediately obeyed .
Impostor , indeed ! —M .
If any one asks you whose it is you can say that it belongs to an Irish gentleman. ” The sailor departed without reply .
Chevalier , take my hand ; it is that of a friend who will love you to his last sigh. ” Aramis stooped to kiss the king ’ s hand , but Charles clasped his and pressed it to his heart .
Chapter 27 .
Each of these little tickling arrows must have pleased my father , ” added Albert with a laugh .
“ But , _à propos_ , ” resumed M. de Tréville , “ what has become of your three companions ? ” “ I was about to ask you if you had heard any news of them ? ” “ None , monsieur. ” “ Well , I left them on my road—Porthos at Chantilly , with a duel on his hands ; Aramis at Crèvecœur , with a ball in his shoulder ; and Athos at Amiens , detained by an accusation of coining. ” “ See there , now ! ” said M. de Tréville ; “ and how the devil did you escape ? ” “ By a miracle , monsieur , I must acknowledge , with a sword thrust in my breast , and by nailing the Comte de Wardes on the byroad to Calais , like a butterfly on a tapestry. ” “ There again !
Edmond was intensely interested .
You know poisons become remedies in certain diseases , of which paralysis is one .
The French government , without protecting them openly , as you know , gave countenance to volunteer assistance .
At his house rebellion could be planned with impunity , for , as we have said , since that morning he had ceased to be “ the queen ’ s invalid. ” As to Raoul , he had attended the duchess to her carriage , where , as she took her seat , she gave him her hand to kiss ; then , by one of those wild caprices which made her so adorable and at the same time so dangerous , she had suddenly put her arm around his neck and kissed his forehead , saying : “ Vicomte , may my good wishes and this kiss bring you good fortune ! ” Then she had pushed him away and directed the coachman to stop at the Hotel de Luynes .
“ In a blue frock-coat , buttoned up close , decorated with the Legion of Honor. ” “ It is he ! ” said Villefort , turning pale .
and why so ?
He was for some time without reflection or thought for the divine charm which is in the things of nature , specially after a fantastic dream ; then gradually this view of the outer world , so calm , so pure , so grand , reminded him of the illusiveness of his vision , and once more awakened memory .
“ Gentlemen , ” cried Chatillon , “ the truce is broken , that is evident ; they are going to fight ; go , then , into Charenton , for I shall begin in a short time—there ’ s a signal from the prince ! ” The cornet of a troop had in fact just raised the standard of the prince .
My lord , ” added Henrietta , with a melancholy smile , “ it is sad and almost shameful to be obliged to say that we have passed the winter in the Louvre without money , without linen , almost without bread , and often not rising from bed because we wanted fire. ” “ Horrible ! ” cried De Winter ; “ the daughter of Henry IV. , and the wife of King Charles !
“ What ?
Impossible ! ” Morrel started .
At the noise Felton made in entering , Milady leaped lightly to the ground , and tried to conceal behind her the improvised cord she held in her hand .
What more ? ” “ Well—I—I ’ m not rich .
“ Alas ! ” said Felton , “ I can do but one thing , which is to pity you if you prove to me you are a victim !
Porthos turned his head to the right and to the left , and drew himself up with a movement full of dignity .
I should have thought that his duchess— ” “ Oh , Porthos ’ s duchess is dressed by her husband ’ s clerks , ” said D ’ Artagnan , laughing .
Peppino had a little spare time , so he had a game of _morra_ with the facchini , lost three crowns , and then to console himself drank a bottle of Orvieto .
0317m When he withdrew from the scene of his painful recollections , they both accompanied him downstairs , reiterating their hope that he would come again whenever he pleased , and assuring him that their poor dwelling would ever be open to him .
“ When my father , with a pistol in his hand , was once on the point of committing suicide , had anyone then said , ‘ This man deserves his misery , ’ would not that person have been deceived ? ” “ Yes ; but your father was not allowed to fall .
THE DROP OF WATER Chapter LXIV .
In Crete he was supposed to be slain in winter with the decay of vegetation and to revive in the spring .
That woman had , in all probability , poisoned my brother , and in order to inherit from me she was about to assassinate me in my turn .
He arose and bowed to the four friends , whose eyes were fixed on Charles , while Harrison emptied his glass without the slightest misgiving .
Porthos , impatient at his continued losses , kept up a vigorous play with his knee .
When the Te Deum was over , the coadjutor , without stopping to change his priestly dress , took his way toward that old tower which he knew so well .
You may imagine there was something startling and ominous , ” said Haydée , shaking her head and turning pale at the mere remembrance of the scene , “ in this long file of slaves and women only half-aroused from sleep , or at least so they appeared to me , who was myself scarcely awake .
He then rose , and paced his room with a smile it would have been terrible to witness .
He was well known at the Hôtel of the Musketeers , where everyone considered him a good comrade .
The former Dantès proposed to augment , the latter to remedy .
How inscrutable are the ways of Providence—for what great and mysterious purpose has it pleased Heaven to abase the man once so elevated , and raise up him who was so abased ? ” Dantès ’ whole attention was riveted on a man who could thus forget his own misfortunes while occupying himself with the destinies of others .
To be kept in strict solitary confinement , and to be closely watched and guarded .
“ Did we not swear friendship ?
You do not believe me , M. Danglars ! ” “ I can not help doubting , ” answered Danglars with his stupid smile .
I would as willingly accuse myself !
Still , his sister did not seem uneasy , and told me that though she had not seen him for two or three days , she was sure he was well. ” “ Ah , now I think of it , the Count of Monte Cristo can not appear in the hall , ” said Beauchamp .
As he finished , the host entered with the wine ordered and a ham which , fortunately for him , had been left out of the cellar .
I stopped short to tell him that he was a fool ; the congregation went out to get stones to stone me with , but whilst they were away I found means to conciliate the priests who were present , so that my foe was pelted instead of me .
Be assured , gentlemen , we shall do you honor in our dying .
“ Valentine ! ” said a low voice .
“ You remain minister ; that is understood , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ France needs you. ” “ And I desist from my pretensions , ” said Aramis .
D ’ Artagnan perceived that it would be disobliging Athos not to leave him alone ; and in a few minutes Cahusac fell , with a sword thrust through his throat .
It was the soul of my husband ! —Well , if my husband ’ s soul can come to me , why should not my soul reappear to guard my granddaughter ?
I will so advantageously bestow 2,000 piastres , that the person receiving them shall obtain a respite till next year for Peppino ; and during that year , another skilfully placed 1,000 piastres will afford him the means of escaping from his prison. ” “ And do you feel sure of succeeding ? ” “ _Pardieu ! _ ” exclaimed the man in the cloak , suddenly expressing himself in French .
“ I shall probably kill you the fourth , ” said he to him , holding out his hand to assist him to rise .
A cloud passed over his brow as he said : “ No , monsieur , I do not know the writing , and yet it is tolerably plain .
Nevertheless , as the crossroads offered him a better chance than any other place of meeting somebody , he stood still .
at your age ! ” “ No , I was drunk .
It is not God ’ s will that they should be accomplished .
“ Like the ancient paladins , he has only undertaken this war to obtain a look from his lady love .
“ ‘ Now , then , ’ said Cucumetto , advancing towards the other bandits , ‘ are you coming ? ’ “ ‘ I follow you. ’ 20111m “ Cucumetto departed , without losing sight of Carlini , for , doubtless , he feared lest he should strike him unawares ; but nothing betrayed a hostile design on Carlini ’ s part .
Do you think so , sir ? ” “ Certainly .
He is pursued. ’ But where is he ?
“ There , ” said he , “ it ’ s done .
A poet is as good as an abbé .
No , you have not ; —well , you are right , for if you indulged in such reflections , you would never risk your principal , which is to the speculator what the skin is to civilized man .
“ From La Rochelle ; and you ? ” “ From England. ” “ Buckingham ? ” “ Dead or desperately wounded , as I left without having been able to hear anything of him .
Morrel threw a glance around , but before it reached the spot occupied by Monte Cristo the latter had advanced yet nearer , still unperceived .
I respect old age , but I don ’ t much like it boiled or roasted. ” And he looked round to see if anybody partook of his opinion ; but on the contrary , he saw nothing but eager eyes which were devouring , in anticipation , that sublime fowl which was the object of his contempt .
“ That is not an answer , ” replied Athos .
The three valets passed without accident .
“ Certainly , I excuse you , ” said Monte Cristo graciously , “ and pocket them. ” And he placed the bonds in his pocket-book .
Cromwell is stout and short , and this man thin and lanky , rather tall than otherwise. ” “ Some condemned soldier , perhaps , ” suggested Athos , “ whom they have pardoned at the price of regicide. ” “ No , no , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ it was not the measured step of a foot soldier , nor was it the gait of a horseman .
“ Well , excellency , ” said the landlord triumphantly , and without waiting for Franz to question him , “ I feared yesterday , when I would not promise you anything , that you were too late—there is not a single carriage to be had—that is , for the three last days ” “ Yes , ” returned Franz , “ for the very three days it is most needed. ” “ What is the matter ? ” said Albert , entering ; “ no carriage to be had ? ” “ Just so , ” returned Franz , “ you have guessed it. ” “ Well , your Eternal City is a nice sort of place. ” “ That is to say , excellency , ” replied Pastrini , who was desirous of keeping up the dignity of the capital of the Christian world in the eyes of his guest , “ that there are no carriages to be had from Sunday to Tuesday evening , but from now till Sunday you can have fifty if you please. ” “ Ah , that is something , ” said Albert ; “ today is Thursday , and who knows what may arrive between this and Sunday ? ” “ Ten or twelve thousand travellers will arrive , ” replied Franz , “ which will make it still more difficult. ” “ My friend , ” said Morcerf , “ let us enjoy the present without gloomy forebodings for the future. ” “ At least we can have a window ? ” “ Where ? ” “ In the Corso. ” “ Ah , a window ! ” exclaimed Signor Pastrini , — “ utterly impossible ; there was only one left on the fifth floor of the Doria Palace , and that has been let to a Russian prince for twenty sequins a day. ” The two young men looked at each other with an air of stupefaction .
“ It was an embarrassing load for a man seeking to escape. ” “ I had not for a moment the idea of keeping it , but I knew that at Paris there was an asylum where they receive such creatures .
“ This means , sire , ” replied the cardinal , “ that I was desirous of presenting her Majesty with these two studs , and that not daring to offer them myself , I adopted this means of inducing her to accept them. ” “ And I am the more grateful to your Eminence , ” replied Anne of Austria , with a smile that proved she was not the dupe of this ingenious gallantry , “ from being certain that these two studs alone have cost you as much as all the others cost his Majesty. ” Then saluting the king and the cardinal , the queen resumed her way to the chamber in which she had dressed , and where she was to take off her costume .
They continued to admire it , but said no more about it ; and with a rapid change of thought , the conversation passed suddenly to another subject .
Well , I went to a horse dealer ’ s , where I saw this magnificent horse , which I have named Médéah .
This evening your destiny begins to change. ” “ Amen ! ” exclaimed D ’ Artagnan , stopping the carriage .
Faria saw this .
“ It is well , ” said Monte Cristo whose countenance brightened at these words ; “ you wish it—you are inflexible .
At that time I was not concerned in the adventure , in the course of which you have so successfully estopped me !
“ Well , he did remain with them ; and your Majesty has in him so firm a champion that it was he who gave Jussac the terrible sword thrust which has made the cardinal so angry. ” “ He who wounded Jussac ! ” cried the king , “ he , a boy !
“ But it will be necessary for your eminence to do what the other day you declared you should have done in our place—cry , ‘ Down with Mazarin ! ’ ” “ I will : ‘ Down with Mazarin ’ ” “ In French , in good French , my lord , take care of your accent ; they killed six thousand Angevins in Sicily because they pronounced Italian badly .
“ The felucca is mined , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Then , seeing that none of their replies could throw any light on the subject , Porthos called the host and asked for dice .
The weather was dull and stormy , a cold wind shook the few remaining yellow leaves from the boughs of the trees , and scattered them among the crowd which filled the boulevards .
“ Oh , not a word , ” said she in a concentrated voice , “ not a word of all that I have said to you to this man , or I am lost , and it would be you—you— ” Then as the steps drew near , she became silent for fear of being heard , applying , with a gesture of infinite terror , her beautiful hand to Felton ’ s mouth .
In an instant his sword glittered in his hand , and he sprang upon his adversary , whom , thanks to his great youthfulness , he hoped to intimidate .
When I am happy , I wish all the world to be so ; but it appears that is not possible. ” The young man departed , laughing at the joke , which he thought he alone could comprehend .
He who at the moment occupied the upper step kept his adversaries marvelously in check .
That , however , does not hinder me from being entirely devoted to his service , as I am to that of your majesty. ” “ I ask your pardon for him , cardinal , ” said the queen ; “ he is a child , not yet able to understand his obligations to you. ” The cardinal smiled .
That ’ s strange !
But what did M. Danglars say to this outburst on the part of the procureur ? ” “ Oh , he laughed , and in that singular manner so peculiar to himself—half-malicious , half-ferocious ; he almost immediately got up and took his leave ; then , for the first time , I observed the agitation of my grandfather , and I must tell you , Maximilian , that I am the only person capable of discerning emotion in his paralyzed frame .
Read it. ” Obeying the queen , Athos read aloud the letter which we have already seen , in which King Charles demanded to know whether the hospitality of France would be accorded him .
“ Apropos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , loud enough for the servant to hear him , “ are you satisfied with Olivain ? ” “ Yes , in some respects , tolerably well. ” Olivain pretended to have heard nothing and entered the tent .
The blood mounted to his temples , his eyes became dim ; he saw from what fountainhead the ferocious hopes of the young man arose , and he put his hand to the hilt of his sword .
“ Since you have no further interrogations to make , leave me , I beseech you , ” she said .
They had just prepared their beds and barricaded their door within , when someone knocked at the yard shutter ; they demanded who was there , and recognizing the voices of their lackeys , opened the shutter .
At the cry uttered by the duke and the scream of Patrick , the man whom Felton had met in the antechamber rushed into the chamber .
Bazin wore his dress , it may be observed , with equal dignity and saintly propriety .
“ My dear M. d ’ Artagnan , ” said the minister , sitting down , “ I am about to give you the greatest proof of confidence that a minister can give an officer. ” “ I hope , ” said D ’ Artagnan , bowing , “ that you give it , my lord , without hesitation and with the conviction that I am worthy of it. ” “ More worthy than any one in Paris my dear friend ; therefore I apply to you .
Hurry ! ” The horses bounded beneath the whip ; and in five minutes they stopped before the count ’ s door .
He walked six or seven times round the Place Royale , turning at every ten steps to look at the light in Milady ’ s apartment , which was to be seen through the blinds .
“ I am going to have the honor of taking my leave of you , mademoiselle , solemnly assuring you that I wish your life may be so calm , so happy , and so fully occupied , that there may be no place for me even in your memory. ” “ Oh ! ” murmured Valentine .
The prince dismounted , ordered one of his aids and Raoul to follow his example , and directed the others to await his orders , keeping themselves meanwhile on the alert .
Felton no doubt felt within himself that his strength was abandoning him , and he made several steps toward the door ; but the prisoner , whose eye never left him , sprang in pursuit of him and stopped him .
“ Shall I complain of him ? ” demanded the inspector .
I have at length , then , intelligence of you .
“ Yes , my lord , ” replied the servant , “ M .
“ And , now , when are we to go ? ” asked Athos .
“ Call an officer of justice , ” he said ; “ and stay close to me , ” he added , in a low tone .
The bills signed by Morrel were presented at his office with scrupulous exactitude , and , thanks to the delay granted by the Englishman , were paid by Cocles with equal punctuality .
One of Marie Michon ’ s Adventures .
“ Well , where is he , sir ? ” asked Raoul , in a soft and coaxing voice .
Ah !
“ Now , sir , I am listening—go on. ” “ I will come at once to the point .
Some time after our rupture , you wished to study music , under the celebrated baritone who made such a successful appearance at the Théâtre Italien ; at the same time I felt inclined to learn dancing of the _danseuse_ who acquired such a reputation in London .
I will answer for it , her resentment will not hold out against such an attention. ” “ Monsieur Cardinal , you know that I do not like worldly pleasures. ” “ The queen will only be the more grateful to you , as she knows your antipathy for that amusement ; besides , it will be an opportunity for her to wear those beautiful diamonds which you gave her recently on her birthday and with which she has since had no occasion to adorn herself. ” “ We shall see , Monsieur Cardinal , we shall see , ” said the king , who , in his joy at finding the queen guilty of a crime which he cared little about , and innocent of a fault of which he had great dread , was ready to make up all differences with her , “ we shall see , but upon my honor , you are too indulgent toward her. ” “ Sire , ” said the cardinal , “ leave severity to your ministers .
Mazarin leaned out of the window .
Accordingly , it was admitted to the presence of Anne , who , silent and lofty as ever , listened to the speeches and complaints of the deputies ; but when they had finished their harangues not one of them could say , so calm remained her face , whether or no she had heard them .
Nor was it from caprice we asked the question , for there is a wounded and dying man who demands the succor of the church .
“ You are convinced now , Edmond , are you not ? ” asked the abbé .
Demand anything you want , and I will hasten to have you furnished with it. ” “ But I have neither my women nor my servants. ” “ You shall have all , madame .
He entered , and on his way met the waiter .
Morrel relaxed his hold of Valentine , and retreating to a distant corner of the room remained half hidden behind a curtain .
But what help is there for it !
Then they departed , without knowing whether they would ever see each other again .
These glances frequently exasperated the pride of Danglars , but this evening he took no notice of them .
“ Now , ” asked Porthos , “ what are we to do ? ” “ Now we shall make use of your shoulder , friend Porthos , if this door proves to be locked .
Albert kissed his mother ’ s hand , and drew near the count .
“ Bravo !
But one of these balls , launched by Porthos ’ herculean hand , passed so close to D ’ Artagnan ’ s face that he thought that if , instead of passing near , it had hit him , his audience would have been probably lost , as it would have been impossible for him to present himself before the king .
count , ” said De Winter , “ for whom do you take me ? ” “ For a stranger who does not know Paris , ” said Athos , “ and to whom the viscount will show the way. ” De Winter shook him by the hand .
Devoted men are so rare , Tréville , by the back staircase .
“ I was reflecting upon the rapidity with which the blessings of this world leave us .
“ I can not explain myself ; but watch over him. ” Emmanuel looked around the room and caught sight of the pistols ; his eyes rested on the weapons , and he pointed to them .
“ Yes , and I take your brother with me. ” “ Oh , count. ” said Julie , “ will you restore him to us cured of his melancholy ? ” Morrel turned away to conceal the confusion of his countenance .
Chapter LIX .
“ There , Edmond Dantès ! ” he said , pointing to the bodies of his wife and child , “ see , are you well avenged ? ” Monte Cristo became pale at this horrible sight ; he felt that he had passed beyond the bounds of vengeance , and that he could no longer say , “ God is for and with me. ” With an expression of indescribable anguish he threw himself upon the body of the child , reopened its eyes , felt its pulse , and then rushed with him into Valentine ’ s room , of which he double-locked the door .
“ I took the precaution to half empty the _carafe_ , in order that my suspicions might not be noticed .
I gratify my wishes by two means—my will and my money .
The cardinal will remember that these are the same men who have often crossed his path ; and then some fine morning he will arrest D ’ Artagnan , and for fear he should feel lonely , he will send us to keep him company in the Bastille. ” “ Go to !
“ We can only save you by being free ourselves , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , in a rapid , low tone ; “ and if we appear inclined to defend you , they will arrest us with you. ” “ It seems , nevertheless— ” “ Come , gentlemen , come ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , aloud ; “ I have no motive for defending Monsieur .
No , madame , they struck me , always struck me !
The last raised his eyes , to ascertain , doubtless , that neither his companions nor himself had been watched , and , in spite of the darkness , he perceived Gondy .
I confess I began to be very uneasy on your account. ” “ But your host behaves very well toward you , as it appears , my dear Porthos , ” said D ’ Artagnan , directing the sick man ’ s attention to the full stewpans and the empty bottles .
In your place , in truth , sire , I should yield to such powerful instance ; and on my part , it would be a real happiness to withdraw from public affairs. ” “ What say you , Duke ? ” “ I say , sire , that my health is sinking under these excessive struggles and these never-ending labors .
Bonacieux thought she recognized the sound of that voice ; she reopened her eyes , cast a quick glance upon the man who had terrified her so , and at once perceiving it was D ’ Artagnan , she uttered a cry of joy , “ Oh , it is you , it is you !
The obscurity was broken only now and then by the still darker lines of the roofs of houses .
Then from the bottom of this passage , the depth of which it was impossible to measure , he saw appear , first the head , then the shoulders , and lastly the body of a man , who sprang lightly into his cell .
This enemy was Milady .
“ Ah , it is No , then ? ” “ Yes. ” Valentine fetched a dictionary , which she placed on a desk before Noirtier ; she opened it , and , seeing that the old man ’ s eye was thoroughly fixed on its pages , she ran her finger quickly up and down the columns .
Did I advise your father to sell the castle of Yanina—to betray—— ” “ Silence ! ” said Albert , with a thundering voice .
certainly not , ” exclaimed Mazarin .
They must die—die all together—killed at one stroke by the thunder of men in default of God ’ s .
Then observe , too , that the woman with him is altogether unlike all others of her sex .
He was desirous of an explosion , because in that case the mine throws forth fire , and fire enlightens .
“ I don ’ t know English , Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ but you know it and will interpret for me. ” Then quickening their steps they passed the three men , but turned back immediately , and D ’ Artagnan walked straight up to the butcher and touching him on the chest with the tip of his finger , said to Athos : “ Say this to him in English : ‘ You are a coward .
I came to tell you that I also look upon you as my enemy .
“ Why , on making a thrust at my adversary , whom I had already hit three times , and whom I meant to finish with the fourth , I put my foot on a stone , slipped , and strained my knee. ” “ Truly ? ” “ Honor !
“ The table was laid in a vineyard belonging to the pope , near San Pierdarena , a charming retreat which the cardinals knew very well by report .
All I do know is , that I was just nineteen when I was arrested , the 28th of February , 1815. ” “ Not quite twenty-six ! ” murmured the voice ; “ at that age he can not be a traitor. ” “ Oh , no , no , ” cried Dantès .
“ Everything , ” said Olivain to Athos , “ has been done according to your directions ; the horses are waiting. ” “ And I was asleep , ” cried Raoul , “ whilst you , sir , you had the kindness to attend to all these details .
It consisted , as we have said , of a small dressing-room , opening into a bedroom , and , when the door of communication was shut , the inmates were quite alone .
The boat was built for speed ; her two paddle-wheels were like two wings with which she skimmed the water like a bird .
Finally he promised that he would leave her mistress ’ s presence at an early hour that evening , and that when he left the mistress he would ascend with the maid .
On going home , the two friends found a letter from Athos , who desired them to meet him at the Grand Charlemagne on the following day .
When I look at this room , —whence so many guilty creatures have departed , trembling and ashamed , when I look at that chair before which I now sit trembling and ashamed , —oh , it requires all my reason to convince me that I am not a very guilty woman and you a menacing judge. ” Villefort dropped his head and sighed .
“ Be careful of your life , which is menaced , and which will be dear to me from the moment I am not obliged to see an enemy in you .
He advanced towards the angle , and summoning all his resolution , attacked the ground with the pickaxe .
Scarcely had he descended the last step of the threshold when he saw Athos bent down toward the ground , as if he were looking for a crown-piece in the dust .
“ Did she stay long there ? ” “ An hour and a half. ” “ Did she return home ? ” “ Directly. ” “ Well , my dear Bertuccio , ” said the count , “ I now advise you to go in quest of the little estate I spoke to you of in Normandy. ” Bertuccio bowed , and as his wishes were in perfect harmony with the order he had received , he started the same evening .
I do not know that. ” “ And did my husband know I had been carried off ? ” “ He was informed of it by a letter , written to him by the abductor himself. ” “ And does he suspect , ” said Mme .
The calumniator is not yet punished , and he may hope that he will not be ; but , on my honor , if he thinks so , he deceives himself. ” “ Well , listen , Morcerf. ” “ Ah , Beauchamp , I see you know something already ; you will restore me to life. ” “ I do not say there is any truth in what I am going to tell you , but it is , at least , a ray of light in a dark night ; by following it we may , perhaps , discover something more certain. ” “ Tell me ; satisfy my impatience. ” “ Well , I will tell you what I did not like to mention on my return from Yanina. ” “ Say on. ” “ I went , of course , to the chief banker of the town to make inquiries .
put to Catherine de ’ Medici , after the massacre of Saint Bartholomew : ‘ How have I played my little part ? ’ ” “ To what do you allude ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
Although La Rochelle was invested , however certain success might appear—thanks to the precautions taken , and above all to the dyke , which prevented the entrance of any vessel into the besieged city—the blockade might last a long time yet .
It is useless , then , to attempt anything with him .
Monsieur does not postpone an interview through prudence ? ” “ Prudence , monsieur , is a virtue sufficiently useless to Musketeers , I know , but indispensable to churchmen ; and as I am only a Musketeer provisionally , I hold it good to be prudent .
“ And you were right , ” cried Aramis and Porthos , with one voice .
“ A desert island in the midst of the Mediterranean must be a curiosity. ” “ It is very natural ; this island is a mass of rocks , and does not contain an acre of land capable of cultivation. ” “ To whom does this island belong ? ” “ To Tuscany. ” “ What game shall I find there ! ” “ Thousands of wild goats. ” “ Who live upon the stones , I suppose , ” said Franz with an incredulous smile .
As for myself , that I may put you at your ease , I tell you that I am generally called ‘ Sinbad the Sailor. ’ ” “ And I , ” replied Franz , “ will tell you , as I only require his wonderful lamp to make me precisely like Aladdin , that I see no reason why at this moment I should not be called Aladdin .
“ Ali knows I generally smoke while I am taking my tea or coffee ; he has heard that I ordered tea , and he also knows that I brought you home with me ; when I summoned him he naturally guessed the reason of my doing so , and as he comes from a country where hospitality is especially manifested through the medium of smoking , he naturally concludes that we shall smoke in company , and therefore brings two chibouques instead of one—and now the mystery is solved. ” “ Certainly you give a most commonplace air to your explanation , but it is not the less true that you——Ah , but what do I hear ? ” and Morcerf inclined his head towards the door , through which sounds seemed to issue resembling those of a guitar .
“ You are a precious creature , my pretty hostess , and I am much obliged to you. ” The next moment D ’ Artagnan was on his way to Notre Dame .
“ Yes .
“ How ! ” said Bonacieux , astonished .
“ There are only two persons who have the key to that door , ” murmured Morrel , “ Cocles and Julie. ” At this instant the second door opened , and the young girl , her eyes bathed with tears , appeared .
Groslow jumped in , followed by Mordaunt , and in five minutes they were quite away from that world of houses which then crowded the outskirts of London ; and Mordaunt could discern the little vessel riding at anchor near the Isle of Dogs .
Whilst he was talking to this lad a horse was brought to the door of Bazin ’ s house .
up !
The reader hushed herself instantly .
In the middle of the lawn I stopped to light it , then I continued my path .
Oh , my dear friend , if this be the case , —if you can no longer weep , if your frozen heart be dead , if you put all your trust in God , then , Maximilian , you are consoled—do not complain. ” “ Count , ” said Morrel , in a firm and at the same time soft voice , “ listen to me , as to a man whose thoughts are raised to heaven , though he remains on earth ; I come to die in the arms of a friend .
Does he think we are going to take him in ?
“ Good , ” said he , “ our syndic is at his post. ” He knocked and the door was opened .
“ I told you this , I am now grieved I have kept my word .
And he seated himself at the table and ate as he did in the merry days of the Rue des Fossoyeurs , whilst D ’ Artagnan walked to and fro and thought how he could make use of Planchet under present circumstances .
Do you hear that , madame ?
my friend !
At the end of a passage paved with bricks , was a little garden , bathed in sunshine , and rich in warmth and light .
The piercing eye of Peppino had noticed all .
A lamp , placed at the base of a pillar , lighted up with its pale and flickering flame the singular scene which presented itself to the eyes of the two visitors concealed in the shadow .
They separated , and D ’ Artagnan rushed between them like a dart .
Athos not only failed to reply , he even changed the subject of conversation .
Still silent : Valentine had promised not to wake .
To any one not acquainted with him he seemed to be in his normal condition ; but to his friends—to Athos and Aramis—was apparent a certain feverishness in his gayety .
Good God !
To lose a year , two years , three years , is to talk of an eternity ; to return after the death or disgrace of the cardinal , perhaps ; to return when D ’ Artagnan and his friends , happy and triumphant , should have received from the queen the reward they had well acquired by the services they had rendered her—these were devouring ideas that a woman like Milady could not endure .
Then I will go to the governor of Algeria ; he has a royal heart , and is essentially a soldier ; I will tell him my gloomy story .
“ I am manifestly protected in a most wonderful , but most terrible manner , ” said he ; “ but Valentine , poor girl , how will she bear so much sorrow ? ” As he thought thus , he looked alternately at the window with red curtains and the three windows with white curtains .
The man came straight toward him .
“ Can Tréville have set this Gascon upon me ?
They might have remained much longer lost in one another , without anyone noticing their abstraction .
The Battle of Charenton .
how many have you , then ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ I am lost , ” murmured she ; “ I am lost !
At this spot , so pregnant with fond and filial remembrances , his heart beat almost to bursting , his knees tottered under him , a mist floated over his sight , and had he not clung for support to one of the trees , he would inevitably have fallen to the ground and been crushed beneath the many vehicles continually passing there .
No ; you do all this , not I. ” “ Still it seems to me , that as you profit by it—— ” Danglars shrugged his shoulders .
At this moment the door opened and the young Henrietta appeared ; then the queen , with that wonderful strength which is the privilege of parents , repressed her tears and motioned to De Winter to change the subject .
This lady was the daughter of Nicholas de Camus , who arrived in Paris with twenty francs in his pocket , became secretary of state , and accumulated wealth enough to divide nine millions of francs among his children and to keep an income of forty thousand for himself .
The queen fixed her eyes upon the carriage they had left , and seeing that it was empty , she said : “ But where is Madame de Longueville ? ” “ Ah , yes , where is my sister ? ” asked the prince .
Do I not hear a carriage in the courtyard ? ” She opened Noirtier ’ s door , ran to a window in the passage , and returned hastily .
Every reproach his friend uttered struck deeply in his heart .
“ Certainly , monsieur , speak , ” he said , softening his stern , accented tones , as if he were speaking to a woman .
“ Yes , it was so , my Lord , it was so—in the left side , and with a knife .
“ No , monsieur , it is not Aramis ; and by your exclamation I perceive you have mistaken me for another , and pardon you. ” “ You pardon me ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
You do not make Raoul work , so he takes his own way of employing himself. ” “ Exactly ; therefore I think of sending him away from here. ” “ You will be wise to do so. ” “ No doubt of it ; but it will break his heart .
“ Can he be inconstant before being happy ? ” “ Oh , no ; he must have been prevented by Monsieur de Tréville or Monsieur Dessessart .
I detest him !
Dantès saw that he was looked upon as dangerous .
Mazarin came within three steps of D ’ Artagnan and pushed a spring in the wall ; the slab turned and the orange tree resumed its place .
Your note of this morning has completely bewildered me .
You acknowledge , of course , that you owe this sum to him ? ” “ Yes ; he placed the money in my hands at four and a half per cent nearly five years ago. ” “ When are you to pay ? ” “ Half the 15th of this month , half the 15th of next. ” “ Just so ; and now here are 32,500 francs payable shortly ; they are all signed by you , and assigned to our house by the holders. ” “ I recognize them , ” said Morrel , whose face was suffused , as he thought that , for the first time in his life , he would be unable to honor his own signature .
A porter was passing and they gave him the portmanteau ; then the two young girls , having told him to take it to No .
It was then three o ’ clock in the morning .
He questioned them as to the news they had each been charged to obtain , but nothing positive had been learned .
The young girl , perceiving that there was something extraordinary , looked at him steadfastly .
Bonacieux , and was expressed in these terms : “ There are many thanks to be offered to you , and to be transmitted to you .
The name of one of the four friends is Caderousse. ’ ” The innkeeper shivered .
In all probability , therefore , the Transteverin was no other than the bandit Luigi Vampa himself , and the man shrouded in the mantle the same he had known as “ Sinbad the Sailor , ” but who , no doubt , was still pursuing his philanthropic expedition in Rome , as he had already done at Porto-Vecchio and Tunis .
If , on the other side , it was not she—which was still quite possible—for the little light that remained rendered a mistake easy—might it not be the commencement of some plot against him through the allurement of this woman , for whom his love was known ?
Why did he detain her ?
“ But it is beginning again , I say ! ” “ Well , ” said the Count , astonished at his perseverance , which he could not understand , and looking still more earnestly at Maximilian , “ let it begin again , —it is like the house of the Atreidae ; 19 God has condemned them , and they must submit to their punishment .
The Englishman , delighted at having to do with a gentleman of such a kind disposition , pressed D ’ Artagnan in his arms , and paid a thousand compliments to the three Musketeers , and as Porthos ’ s adversary was already installed in the carriage , and as Aramis ’ s had taken to his heels , they had nothing to think about but the dead .
THE WIFE OF ATHOS We have now to search for Athos , ” said D ’ Artagnan to the vivacious Aramis , when he had informed him of all that had passed since their departure from the capital , and an excellent dinner had made one of them forget his thesis and the other his fatigue .
were I but of gentle birth ! ” The position of the cardinal was indeed critical , and recent events had added to his difficulties .
“ No , no , monsieur , ” said Monte Cristo .
I believe I see double .
He is at Vincennes. ” “ Did I say Monsieur de Beaufort ?
“ There wasn ’ t any trouble over treaties when it was a question of shooting the poor Duc d ’ Enghien. ” “ Well , ” said the marquise , “ it seems probable that , by the aid of the Holy Alliance , we shall be rid of Napoleon ; and we must trust to the vigilance of M. de Villefort to purify Marseilles of his partisans .
He was , however , forced to hold his tongue from not comprehending half the language they employed .
My name has been mentioned to you—the Comte de la Fere ; you do not know that name .
“ Meantime , night came on rapidly , and with night my terrors increased .
your honor ! ” cried Mousqueton , “ the man you upset is getting up. ” “ Why didn ’ t thou do as thou didst to the first man ? ” said Porthos .
“ Well , ” said he , “ I will ask you the same question which Charles IX .
“ As soon as possible , M. Danglars ; today all preliminaries will be arranged at my father ’ s , and tomorrow , or next day at latest , the wedding festival here at La Réserve .
“ It was brought to me .
Three months passed away .
Gondy sprang to the window and threw it open ; he recognized Louvieres at the head of a troop of about three or four thousand men .
For three or four centuries they have remained upon this small promontory , on which they had settled like a flight of seabirds , without mixing with the Marseillaise population , intermarrying , and preserving their original customs and the costume of their mother-country as they have preserved its language .
“ And driving the coadjutor ’ s carriage ! ” said the queen .
The second contained the Duke and Duchess of Orleans , the tall young Mademoiselle and the Abbé de la Riviere ; and the third , the Duke de Longueville and the Prince de Conti , brother and brother-in-law of Condé .
But that act of self-control , effective as it was , did not escape the eyes of the young princess .
At sight of the mustaches and the naked sword , the poor devil perceived he had to deal with a man .
Chapter L. The Interview .
his health—hurrah ! ” “ But the means—the means ? ” said Fernand .
Then the letter that Villefort had showed to him recurred to his mind , and every line gleamed forth in fiery letters on the wall like the _mene , mene , tekel upharsin_ of Belshazzar .
“ No , no , ” said Fernand , restraining him , “ stay !
At the same time through the streets of Grenelle , Saint Honore , and Du Coq , a double stream of people broke the feeble hedge of Swiss guards and came like a whirlwind even to the very legs of Porthos ’ s horse and that of D ’ Artagnan .
God gave that spectre the form of the Count of Monte Cristo when he at length issued from his tomb , enriched him with gold and diamonds , and led him to you ! ” “ Ah , I recognize you—I recognize you ! ” exclaimed the king ’ s attorney ; “ you are—— ” “ I am Edmond Dantès ! ” “ You are Edmond Dantès , ” cried Villefort , seizing the count by the wrist ; “ then come here ! ” And up the stairs he dragged Monte Cristo ; who , ignorant of what had happened , followed him in astonishment , foreseeing some new catastrophe .
Lord de Winter perceived nothing of this .
I asked the price ; they told me it was 4,500 francs .
The period appointed by the testator for the disposal of these riches occurred only a short time ago , and they have only been employed by me within the last few years .
He saw the map which Monte Cristo had been examining when he entered , and said : “ You seem geographically engaged , sir ?
His fearless deportment , his words , so firm , yet dignified , the shades which by one word he had evoked , recalled to her the past in all its intoxication of poetry and romance , youth , beauty , the eclat of love at twenty years of age , the bloody death of Buckingham , the only man whom she had ever really loved , and the heroism of those obscure champions who had saved her from the double hatred of Richelieu and the king .
His itinerary was promptly determined : he would go to Dammartin , from which place two roads diverge , one toward Soissons , the other toward Compiegne ; there he would inquire concerning the Bracieux estate and go to the right or to the left according to the information obtained .
The Past Chapter 114 .
Chapter 50 .
The youth ’ s dark hair was neatly parted and hung in curls , forming a sort of dark frame around his face ; such was the fashion of the day .
Clemency is a royal virtue ; employ it , and you will find that you derive advantage therein. ” Thereupon the cardinal , hearing the clock strike eleven , bowed low , asking permission of the king to retire , and supplicating him to come to a good understanding with the queen .
“ What do they say ? ” “ That this chief inhabits a cavern to which the Pitti Palace is nothing. ” “ What nonsense ! ” said Franz , reseating himself .
The cardinal ’ s house had no secrets for me .
_Peste ! _ I thought you somewhat Corsican , a great deal smuggler , and an excellent steward ; but I see you have other strings to your bow .
It might alienate my protector .
But so it is ; a woman will often , from mere wilfulness , prefer that which is dangerous to that which is safe .
“ Quick , Kitty , quick ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , in a low voice , as soon as the bolts were fast , “ let me get out of the hôtel ; for if we leave her time to turn round , she will have me killed by the servants. ” “ But you can ’ t go out so , ” said Kitty ; “ you are naked. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said D ’ Artagnan , then first thinking of the costume he found himself in , “ that ’ s true .
Then he saw beneath a thick clump of linden-trees , which were nearly divested of foliage , Madame de Villefort sitting with a book in her hand , the perusal of which she frequently interrupted to smile upon her son , or to throw back his elastic ball , which he obstinately threw from the drawing-room into the garden .
Then suddenly , — “ How I should like to see all that , ” cried he ; “ how beautiful it must be ! ” “ It is , in fact , magnificent , ” said Andrea .
Guitant and Comminges , at the head of the guards , marched first ; then came the royal carriage , with D ’ Artagnan on one side , Porthos on the other ; then the musketeers , for two and twenty years staunch friends of D ’ Artagnan .
Should Andrea marry according to his father ’ s views , he will , perhaps , give him one , two , or three millions .
The vessel resembled a swan with its wings opened towards the wind , gliding on the water .
Not a sound was heard in the castle , except of a footstep up and down , in the chamber above—as he supposed , the bedroom of Athos .
“ Or rather , sir , ” said Aramis , with his peculiar irritating politeness , “ the error of the person who was with you when we met you in the guardroom ; for if the Comte de la Fere and I are not mistaken , we saw you in the company of a third gentleman. ” Chatillon and Flamarens started .
“ Yes , in Italy ; it was in Italy most probably , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ you have travelled then in Italy , mademoiselle ? ” “ Yes ; madame and I were there two years ago .
yes , my lord , ” said the young man , with such peculiar emphasis that the cardinal felt a shudder run through every vein .
As Monsieur Porthos is a very boastful man , he insists that nobody shall know he has received this wound except the duchess , whom he endeavored to interest by an account of his adventure. ” “ It is a wound that confines him to his bed ? ” “ Ah , and a master stroke , too , I assure you .
“ Well , I must mortify myself .
“ But this is a needless quarrel you seek with me , as it seems to me. ” “ _Parbleu ! _ What do you desire it to be ? ” “ What do you want ? ” “ Would you like to know ? ” “ Certainly. ” “ Well , then , I wish that order of which you are bearer , seeing that I have not one of my own and must have one. ” “ You jest , I presume. ” “ I never jest. ” “ Let me pass ! ” “ You shall not pass. ” “ My brave young man , I will blow out your brains .
The two friends exchanged a simple inclination of the head and Aramis put his finger to his hat , as if to bow , Athos alone comprehending by that signal that he had some project in his head .
“ I wished to make an effort ; I attempted to cry out .
Good heavens !
All at once his ear caught a sound resembling that of a stone rolling down the staircase opposite the one by which he had himself ascended .
Oh , count , I shall sleep calmly , deliciously in the arms of death. ” Morrel uttered these words with an energy which made the count shudder .
The traveller alighted , ordered a good dinner , and inquired the address of the house of Thomson & French , which was immediately given to him , as it was one of the most celebrated in Rome .
But do not let us lose time ; you are the subject on which I wish to speak. ” “ True , we must be quick , for we have scarcely ten minutes more to pass together. ” “ _Ma foi ! _ ” said Maximilian , in consternation .
Richelieu remained standing , leaning against the mantelpiece ; a table was between him and D ’ Artagnan .
I saw the soldier ’ s shape and the top of his musket ; that made me draw in my head so quickly , for I was fearful he might also see me. ” “ Well ? ” inquired Dantès .
why so ? ” “ I play with Monsieur du Vallon every night .
I require that his majesty should deign to be godfather to the child she has just borne ; and that my lord , after having been present at the christening , should go to proffer his homage to our Holy Father the Pope. ” “ That is , you wish me to lay aside my ministerial functions , to quit France and be an exile. ” “ I wish his eminence to become pope on the first opportunity , allowing me then the right of demanding full indulgences for myself and my friends. ” Mazarin made a grimace which was quite indescribable , and then turned to D ’ Artagnan .
He received the travelers with his candlestick in one hand and his cotton nightcap in the other .
The fortune of war , my dear viscount , —the caprice of fortune ; that is the way in which these things are to be accounted for. ” “ And is her name a secret ? ” “ As regards the generality of mankind it is ; but not for you , my dear viscount , who are one of my most intimate friends , and on whose silence I feel I may rely , if I consider it necessary to enjoin it—may I not do so ? ” “ Certainly ; on my word of honor. ” “ You know the history of the Pasha of Yanina , do you not ? ” “ Of Ali Tepelini ? 13 Oh , yes ; it was in his service that my father made his fortune. ” “ True , I had forgotten that. ” 40062m “ Well , what is Haydée to Ali Tepelini ? ” “ Merely his daughter. ” “ What ?
“ At the very moment when I was about to pay you , I had placed my purse on the table. ” “ Yes , monsieur. ” “ That purse contained sixty pistoles ; where is it ? ” “ Deposited with the justice ; they said it was bad money. ” “ Very well ; get me my purse back and keep the sixty pistoles. ” “ But Monseigneur knows very well that justice never lets go that which it once lays hold of .
In this apartment a continued buzzing prevailed from morning till night , while M. de Tréville , in his office contiguous to this antechamber , received visits , listened to complaints , gave his orders , and like the king in his balcony at the Louvre , had only to place himself at the window to review both his men and arms .
I have my plan ; let me carry it out and we shall laugh. ” “ So much the better , ” said Porthos ; “ I feel some need of it. ” “ Hush ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ the some one is coming. ” The sound of a light step was heard in the vestibule .
Then all looked at each other , —he was made to take an oath , and did so , but with such an ill grace that it was really tempting Providence to swear thus , and yet , in spite of that , the general was allowed to depart free—perfectly free .
Among worldly people manner is contagious .
The game began .
“ Mercédès is at this moment one of the greatest ladies in Paris , ” replied Caderousse .
My hôtel will be always open to you .
Chapter 68 .
“ Didn ’ t you hear , fellow ? ” “ Yes , I heard. ” “ Why , then , didn ’ t you reply ? ” “ Because these horses are not to be sold , ” was the reply .
June and July were the terrible months with Athos .
Grimaud therefore added nothing to his speech , but contented himself with pointing his index finger in the direction of the hedge , announcing by this gesture the cardinal and his escort .
Dantès was alone in darkness and in silence—cold as the shadows that he felt breathe on his burning forehead .
He waited silently , striving to pierce through the darkness .
The poor duke swore , fell into a rage , yelled , and declared that they wished to starve him to death as they had starved the Marechal Ornano and the Grand Prior of Vendome ; but he refused to promise that he would not make any more drawings and remained without any fire in the room all the winter .
The first card struck off was taken , according to your orders , to the Baron Danglars , Rue de la Chaussée d ’ Antin , No .
Edmond felt a sort of stupor creeping over him which brought with it a feeling almost of content ; the gnawing pain at his stomach had ceased ; his thirst had abated ; when he closed his eyes he saw myriads of lights dancing before them like the will-o ’ -the-wisps that play about the marshes .
Three days since you were with him in Normandy ; only three days since we looked on him as our best friend. ” An ironical smile passed over Albert ’ s lips .
When everything was ready , the gallows hung in the middle of the room , the loop made , and when the duke had cast a glance upon the plate of crawfish , in order to select the finest specimen among them , he looked around for his piece of glass ; it had disappeared .
A month of fever could not have changed her more than this one night of sleeplessness and sorrow .
Yet in spite of all this seduction Milady might fail—for Felton was forewarned , and that against the least chance .
This new tenant , who , as we have said , was an Italian , was called Il Signor Giacomo Busoni .
It was very hard. ” “ The horse ? ” said Morcerf , laughing .
As the religious ceremonies had all been performed at the door , and there was no address given , the party all separated ; Château-Renaud , Albert , and Morrel , went one way , and Debray and Beauchamp the other .
He had scarcely gone ten yards in the street when he perceived that he was followed by a man , wrapped in a large cloak .
From the salon they passed into the bedchamber ; it was a model of taste and simple elegance .
You have had a proof of that in what you have just related to me. ” This , too , was the opinion of Comminges , who withdrew somewhat reassured .
M. Bonacieux had opened his door , and seeing the apartment , had returned to the man in the cloak , whom he had left alone for an instant .
what has happened , then ? ” “ Sir , ” interposed Monsieur de Flamarens to Athos , “ if we are mistaken the error has originated with the queen .
Julie threw herself into the arms of the count ; Emmanuel embraced him as a guardian angel ; Morrel again fell on his knees , and struck the ground with his forehead .
“ To-morrow , rather , ” said De Chatillon , “ if you will take the trouble of coming so far as the gates of Charenton. ” “ How can you doubt it , sir ?
“ Yes , surely , he came with the prince ; a charming young man ; he is one of your friends then , monsieur le comte ? ” “ Yes , sir , ” answered Athos , agitated ; “ so much so that I wish to see him if possible. ” “ Quite possible , sir ; do me the favor to accompany me and I will conduct you to headquarters. ” “ Halloo , there ! ” cried Aramis , turning around ; “ what a noise behind us ! ” “ A body of cavaliers is coming toward us , ” said Chatillon .
At eight o ’ clock all were in their places , and M. de Morcerf entered at the last stroke .
“ Is it for this I name you captain of my Musketeers , that they should assassinate a man , disturb a whole quarter , and endeavor to set fire to Paris , without your saying a word ?
But whether this was reality or vision , he had this time sufficient self-command not to enter .
“ From whom is this ? ” said he eagerly .
However , we have them safe in prison , and they are just sufficiently culpable for us to keep them in prison as long as we find it convenient .
She arose , came to the table , ate but little , and drank only water .
You may conclude your interrupted galop , so that you will owe no ill-will to Signor Luigi , who has , indeed , throughout this whole affair acted like a gentleman. ” “ You are decidedly right , and we may reach the Palazzo by two o ’ clock .
“ Come in , ” said a voice which he recognized as that of the mendicant , whom he found lying on a kind of truckle bed .
The next day they kept their word , and thus they grew up together .
“ Count , ” said Villefort , “ we will not entertain you any longer with our family misfortunes .
“ She is goddaughter to Laporte , the confidential valet of the queen .
“ What did you say , sir ? ” asked the man .
The rumor of Edmond ’ s arrest as a Bonapartist agent was not slow in circulating throughout the city .
We have made a wager—a wager which could not have been foreseen , and of which I defy anyone to divine the true cause .
A large round rock , placed solidly on its base , was the only spot to which they seemed to lead .
To donate , please visit : www.gutenberg.org/donate .
At every noise he heard , the simple Puritan fancied he recognized the step and voice of Milady coming to throw herself into his arms , to accuse herself , and die with him .
“ It is certainly the king , ” said the man , rising again .
This is what has happened : My brother , who was coming to my assistance to take me away by force if it were necessary , met with the emissary of the cardinal , who was coming in search of me .
Chapter LXI .
Bravo , bravo ! ” Morrel saw it was useless to say more , and refrained .
D ’ Artagnan at once comprehended that this was his recompense .
Chapter 17 .
“ And you , Porthos , ” continued the count , as if in consideration for D ’ Artagnan ’ s embarrassment , “ you , the best heart , the best friend , the best soldier that I know—you , with a soul that makes you worthy of a birth on the steps of a throne , and who , sooner or later , must receive your reward from an intelligent king—you , my dear Porthos , you , a gentleman in manners , in tastes and in courage , you are as culpable as D ’ Artagnan. ” Porthos blushed , but with pleasure rather than with confusion ; and yet , bowing his head , as if humiliated , he said : “ Yes , yes , my dear count , I feel that you are right. ” Athos arose .
“ Come on , come on ! ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ let us keep that paper carefully , perhaps I have not thrown away my half-pistole .
“ Thanks , my God , ” said he , “ at least thou strikest but me alone. ” A tear moistened the eye of the phlegmatic Englishman .
The lease was drawn up for three , six , or nine years by the new tenant , who , according to the rule of the proprietor , paid six months in advance .
de Villefort , ” said Louis XVIII. , “ the Duc de Blacas assures me you have some interesting information to communicate. ” “ Sire , the duke is right , and I believe your majesty will think it equally important. ” 0137m “ In the first place , and before everything else , sir , is the news as bad in your opinion as I am asked to believe ? ” “ Sire , I believe it to be most urgent , but I hope , by the speed I have used , that it is not irreparable. ” “ Speak as fully as you please , sir , ” said the king , who began to give way to the emotion which had showed itself in Blacas ’ s face and affected Villefort ’ s voice .
A man who had sworn vengeance against my father , and had long watched his opportunity to kill him , had introduced himself that night into the garden in which my father buried me .
“ A surgeon , reverend sir—a surgeon ! ” said Caderousse .
If a second traveller had passed , he would have seen a strange thing , —a shepherdess watching her flock , clad in a cashmere grown , with ear-rings and necklace of pearls , diamond pins , and buttons of sapphires , emeralds , and rubies .
You would fight only by broad daylight , warn your foe before an attack , and never attempt anything by night lest you should be accused of taking advantage of the darkness. ” Athos smiled .
What can he want with me ? ” “ He wishes to speak to you. ” “ To me ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Did he mention my name ? ” “ Yes. ” “ What sort of person is he ? ” “ Why , sir , a man of about fifty. ” “ Short or tall ? ” “ About your own height , sir. ” “ Dark or fair ? ” “ Dark , —very dark ; with black eyes , black hair , black eyebrows. ” “ And how dressed ? ” asked Villefort quickly .
Then sitting down by the fire , ‘ My supper , ’ said he ; ‘ my expedition has given me an appetite. ’ “ ‘ Well done , Carlini ! ’ cried the brigands ; ‘ that is acting like a good fellow ; ’ and they all formed a circle round the fire , while Diavolaccio disappeared .
My child , my darling Edward ; speak to your mother—open your dear eyes and look on me once again !
“ By Heaven ! ” at last said Athos , the first to speak , “ by this time , I think , all must be over. ” “ Here , my lords !
Afterward Mme .
Tony carries our muskets. ” “ Then we set sail to-night ? ” asked Aramis , glancing toward the west , where the sun had left a single golden cloud , which , dipping into the ocean , appeared by degrees to be extinguished .
All the city was agitated by an extraordinary movement .
Maximilian ’ s Avowal Chapter 95 .
Around in the crevices of the rocks grew a few dwarf oaks and thick bushes of myrtles .
Adieu. ” “ Au revoir .
Would God send the same dreams to you as to me if you did not love me ?
“ Listen , ” said the abbé , extending his hand over the wounded man , as if to command him to believe ; “ this is what the God in whom , on your death-bed , you refuse to believe , has done for you—he gave you health , strength , regular employment , even friends—a life , in fact , which a man might enjoy with a calm conscience .
Would not M. Noirtier also have fallen a victim , had not the treatment he has been pursuing for the last three years neutralized the effects of the poison ? ” “ Oh , Heaven , ” said Valentine ; “ is this the reason why grandpapa has made me share all his beverages during the last month ? ” “ And have they all tasted of a slightly bitter flavor , like that of dried orange-peel ? ” “ Oh , yes , yes ! ” “ Then that explains all , ” said Monte Cristo .
Emmanuel received him ; this young man was alarmed by the appearance of every new face , for every new face might be that of a new creditor , come in anxiety to question the head of the house .
As he had said , on a camp bed , dressed in his black doublet , booted , unbelted , with his felt hat beside him , lay the king , overcome by sleep and fatigue .
Don ’ t let it out at the Hotel Rambouillet ; it would ruin me , ” replied the abbé .
“ Why do you stop here ? ” asked d ’ Épinay .
By a sort of instinctive impulse , Franz withdrew as much as possible behind his pillar .
No , no ; I shall need all my strength to struggle with myself and support my grief in secret , as you say .
Toward midnight Charles heard a great noise beneath his window .
Give your orders , and we will execute them. ” “ Then open the door directly. ” Peppino obeyed .
Heaven forgive me , they do not know that we can see them , and they are actually embracing ! ” Danglars did not lose one pang that Fernand endured .
It followed that D ’ Artagnan , who was as yet purely and simply in the Guards , found himself , for the time at least , separated from his good friends—Athos , Porthos , and Aramis .
“ Host , ” said he , “ could you not contrive to get rid of this frantic boy for me ?
“ Yes ; my son , and a sacred command. ” “ Say it , my father. ” “ The house of Thomson & French is the only one who , from humanity , or , it may be , selfishness—it is not for me to read men ’ s hearts—has had any pity for me .
“ Well , my lord , what I foresaw has come to pass. ” “ What ?
“ By the governor ’ s orders , ” said he , “ conduct the prisoner to the tier beneath. ” “ To the dungeon , then , ” said the corporal .
“ Really , ” said Monte Cristo , lowering his voice , “ you do not appear to me to be very enthusiastic on the subject of this marriage. ” “ Mademoiselle Danglars is too rich for me , ” replied Morcerf , “ and that frightens me. ” “ Bah , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo , “ that ’ s a fine reason to give .
But he had reckoned too much upon his strength , and then he realized how serviceable the timber had been to him .
The road was long , but the horses upon which D ’ Artagnan and Planchet rode had been refreshed in the well supplied stables of the Lord of Bracieux ; the master and servant rode side by side , conversing as they went , for D ’ Artagnan had by degrees thrown off the master and Planchet had entirely ceased to assume the manners of a servant .
Athos , perceiving that she knew him , pushed the window with his knee and hand .
“ Pretend to sleep , Louis , ” said she .
D ’ Artagnan inquired of everyone he met with , went down to the ferry , came up again by the Rue de Seine , and the Red Cross ; but nothing , absolutely nothing !
“ What fault do you find with the fellow ? ” “ He is a glutton. ” “ Oh , sir ! ” cried Olivain , reappearing at this accusation .
But look !
So soon as she was left alone with the woman whom the baron had summoned to her assistance she opened her eyes .
I have always had more dread of a pen , a bottle of ink , and a sheet of paper , than of a sword or pistol. ” “ The fellow is not so drunk as he appears to be , ” said Danglars .
“ I told you of it yesterday .
The name of Sinbad the Sailor , as may well be supposed , awakened in him a world of recollections , as had the name of the Count of Monte Cristo on the previous evening .
He was very pale .
Sit down , and let us talk it over. ” “ Milady ! ” murmured Athos .
He wished to speak , but his tongue refused to move .
Perfectly safe and sound , my good host ; and I wish to know what has become of our young man. ” “ He is better , ” said the host , “ he fainted quite away. ” “ Indeed ! ” said the gentleman .
I know them from having heard one of their friends , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , say a great deal about them. ” “ You know Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ! ” cried the novice , in her turn seizing the hands of Milady and devouring her with her eyes .
One could have thought that he was undergoing the agonies preceding death .
What the devil , Captain , one can not win all one ’ s battles !
There was , indeed , reason to retreat , to be alarmed , and to scream .
“ Let D ’ Artagnan speak , ” said Athos ; “ you know he always has wise advice to give. ” “ Clearly , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ we must go where they will not look for us .
When he had sufficiently recovered himself , he said , “ It appears , then , that the miserable old man you were telling me of was forsaken by everyone .
“ I am as certain of it as that we two are Christians. ” The abbé , with a shaking hand , seized a glass of water that was standing by him half-full , swallowed it at one gulp , and then resumed his seat , with red eyes and pale cheeks .
Gimblou , a glass of wine. ” “ Well , how has all gone off ? ” “ Zounds !
“ Oh , no , ” said Kitty , “ it is not me you love !
“ Ah , diable ! ” said the host to himself ; “ this man seems dumb .
An officer was placing two soldiers at the door of each drawing-room , and was advancing towards Danglars , preceded by a commissary of police , girded with his scarf .
It ’ s a month now that you have been thinking of this marriage , and you must see that it throws some responsibility on me , for it was at my house you met this young Cavalcanti , whom I do not really know at all. ” “ But I do. ” “ Have you made inquiry ? ” “ Is there any need of that !
Oh , the devil !
The company of French guards was composed of half of M. Duhallier ’ s men and half of M. Dessessart ’ s men .
“ First and foremost , dear D ’ Artagnan , we have no title such as count here .
Nothing but the recollection of his oath gave him strength to proceed .
“ See ! ” answered the voice .
You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others .
“ Don ’ t worry , dear grandpapa , ” said she , endeavoring to smile ; “ it is nothing—it is nothing ; I was giddy , that is all. ” “ Another attack of giddiness , ” said Morrel , clasping his hands .
“ What !
On the spot it had occupied was a circular space , exposing an iron ring let into a square flag-stone .
One of them lifted the plank , took out a flask of wine , drank some , and then passed it to his companion .
Come , then , on another occasion you can be firm and strong ; but to-day is not the proper time ; to-day , flatter and caress , or you are only a common woman. ” ( At the first words of this address D ’ Artagnan had seized Porthos ’ s arm , which he pressed with gradually increasing force .
The queen was standing in the room , pale with anger ; her self-control , however , was so great that it might have been imagined that she was calm .
“ In two or three hours , ” thought Dantès , “ the turnkey will enter my chamber , find the body of my poor friend , recognize it , seek for me in vain , and give the alarm .
Nothing—at least personally , ” said Monte Cristo .
IN WHICH THE EQUIPMENT OF ARAMIS AND PORTHOS IS TREATED OF Since the four friends had been each in search of his equipments , there had been no fixed meeting between them .
Albert led him first to his _atelier_ , which was , as we have said , his favorite apartment .
You look careworn ; really , you alarm me .
He took the child in his arms , embraced him , shook him , called him , but the child made no response .
“ Well ? ” he said to the lieutenant .
“ Hollo !
D ’ Artagnan , however , who had consulted with Aramis , spoke to the poor wretch .
There is but one favor I would entreat of you. ” “ Speak. ” “ Guard carefully the secret of your birth .
Chapter XLVII .
will finish by shouting out , Down with all the people I have mentioned , each in his turn .
So long as you are not mine , Valentine , I shall always think I may lose you. ” “ Oh , ” replied Valentine with a convulsive movement , “ oh , indeed , Maximilian , you are too timid for an officer , for a soldier who , they say , never knows fear .
He had borne with the public prison , and with privations of all sorts ; still , by degrees nature , or rather custom , had prevailed , and he suffered from being naked , dirty , and hungry .
It is the longest road , but certainly the most amusing. ” D ’ Artagnan was on the point of telling Athos all ; but one consideration restrained him .
Still , ” continued the procureur , looking at the doctor with uneasiness , “ if you wish it—if you demand it , why then it shall be done .
Just now , before I came down to you , I drank a glass of sugared water ; I left half , because it seemed so bitter. ” Noirtier turned pale , and made a sign that he wished to speak .
Reflect how glorious a day it will be , how grand , how solemn , that day of complete restoration , on which you will say in this very office , ‘ My father died because he could not do what I have this day done ; but he died calmly and peaceably , because in dying he knew what I should do. ’ ” “ My father , my father ! ” cried the young man , “ why should you not live ? ” “ If I live , all would be changed ; if I live , interest would be converted into doubt , pity into hostility ; if I live I am only a man who has broken his word , failed in his engagements—in fact , only a bankrupt .
The mercer had said that he was rich ; the young man might easily guess that with so weak a man as M. Bonacieux ; and interest was almost foreign to this commencement of love , which had been the consequence of it .
This look of Porthos ’ s made the Gascon regret that he had summoned the brute force of his friend to aid him in an affair which seemed to require chiefly cunning .
“ If you have it , use it , ” replied Gondy .
Comte de la Fere , you wish to perish by his hands !
We must go and find Lord Winter. ” They both set off to the other end of the camp , but as it did not cover more than a surface of five hundred feet they quickly arrived at the tent they were looking for .
If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “ Project Gutenberg ” associated with or appearing on the work , you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9 .
A large stone had served as a wedge ; flints and pebbles had been inserted around it , so as to conceal the orifice ; this species of masonry had been covered with earth , and grass and weeds had grown there , moss had clung to the stones , myrtle-bushes had taken root , and the old rock seemed fixed to the earth .
Edmond waited till life seemed extinct in the body of his friend , then , taking up the knife , he with difficulty forced open the closely fixed jaws , carefully administered the appointed number of drops , and anxiously awaited the result .
He must be retained , or rather he must be left quite alone ; and Milady but obscurely perceived the means which could lead to this result .
Three of them were overwhelmed and disabled by numerous assailants ; one of them alone arrived at the port , having either killed or wounded those who wished to stop him .
When he had finished with the orange-tree , he began at the cactus ; but this , not being so easily plucked as the orange-tree , pricked him dreadfully .
Maximilian ’ s Avowal At the same moment M. de Villefort ’ s voice was heard calling from his study , “ What is the matter ? ” Morrel looked at Noirtier who had recovered his self-command , and with a glance indicated the closet where once before under somewhat similar circumstances , he had taken refuge .
“ He must be apprehended. ” “ Do not attempt it ; he has revenged himself and has done well .
You no more deceive me with that false calmness than I impose upon you with my frivolous solicitude .
From the former she took some greasy letters , and put in their place the bank-notes , and from the bag took two or three crowns of six livres each , which , in all probability , formed the entire fortune of the miserable couple .
“ Well , sir , ” said De Guiche , “ are you going to reply ? ” “ I am a priest , ” said the young man .
“ Are there not some places where we seem to breathe sadness ? —why , we can not tell .
One of my friends—one of my friends , please to observe , not myself , ” said Athos , interrupting himself with a melancholy smile , “ one of the counts of my province—that is to say , of Berry—noble as a Dandolo or a Montmorency , at twenty-five years of age fell in love with a girl of sixteen , beautiful as fancy can paint .
One of our clients is a horsedealer ; he owes money to the office , and is backward in his pay .
I love retirement and silence , because I can live with my thoughts and recollections of past days .
The Duc d ’ Orléans visited the posts .
coward !
Thirty thousand crowns in alms is not given , as you have done for the last six months , out of pure Christian charity ; that would be too grand .
By Aramis is meant Simara , which is the name of a demon .
Milady in the course of the conversation twice or thrice bit her lips ; she had to deal with a Gascon who played close .
Then , seeing that the room was , as usual , empty , and only guarded by the dog , he called to his wife , ‘ Hello , Carconte , ’ said he , ‘ the worthy priest has not deceived us ; the diamond is real. ’ “ An exclamation of joy was heard , and the staircase creaked beneath a feeble step .
What do you intend doing ? ” Valentine held down her head ; she was overwhelmed .
But as we have said , he waited in vain for his son to come to his apartment with the account of his triumph .
“ La Chesnaye , ” said the king , “ let someone go instantly and find Monsieur de la Trémouille ; I wish to speak with him this evening. ” “ Your Majesty gives me your word that you will not see anyone between Monsieur de la Trémouille and myself ? ” “ Nobody , by the faith of a gentleman. ” “ Tomorrow , then , sire ? ” “ Tomorrow , monsieur. ” “ At what o ’ clock , please your Majesty ? ” “ At any hour you will. ” “ But in coming too early I should be afraid of awakening your Majesty. ” “ Awaken me !
“ Tell M. Nortier , ” resumed Villefort , “ that what he demands is impossible. ” “ Then , M. Nortier gives notice to these gentlemen , ” replied Barrois , “ that he will give orders to be carried to the drawing-room. ” Astonishment was at its height .
“ Yes .
Excuse me ; ” and he began to laugh loudly , but nervously .
Raoul , without dismounting , called to the host and announced that a wounded man was about to be brought to his house and begged him in the meantime to prepare everything needful .
“ P.S.—According to the desire of your Eminence , I report to the convent of the Carmelites at Béthune , where I will await your orders. ” Accordingly , that same evening Milady commenced her journey .
Moreover , he reckoned much on the interest of the Danglars to hush up the rumor of their own misadventures .
As for Planchet , he had been lifted from his horse as stiff as a rush ; the poor lad ’ s strength was almost exhausted .
But the eye of love had already seen , even through the narrow chinks of the wooden palisades , the movement of the white robe , and observed the fluttering of the blue sash .
de Morcerf ’ s , who is deceased. ” “ For what reason ? ” “ Because they would not spend money so guiltily acquired. ” “ And what are they to live upon ? ” “ The mother retires into the country , and the son enters the army. ” 50113m “ Well , I must confess , these are scruples. ” “ I registered their deed of gift yesterday. ” “ And how much did they possess ? ” “ Oh , not much—from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand francs .
And this feeling had been more painfully perceived by young D ’ Artagnan—for so was the Don Quixote of this second Rosinante named—from his not being able to conceal from himself the ridiculous appearance that such a steed gave him , good horseman as he was .
“ But , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ shall we not pursue that woman ? ” “ Later , ” said Athos .
Mercédès read with terror the following lines : “ The king ’ s attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and religion that one Edmond Dantès , second in command on board the _Pharaon_ , this day arrived from Smyrna , after having touched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo , is the bearer of a letter from Murat to the usurper , and of another letter from the usurper to the Bonapartist club in Paris .
You are right , sir , and no one can doubt my position. ” These were the only words that this proud and violently enamoured woman could utter in response to Debray .
“ Forward ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ and spur for your dear lives ! ” They galloped away and took the road they had come by in the morning , namely , in the direction toward Scotland .
“ Is it not a joke ? ” said Danglars .
Andrea , who had often stayed there in his rides about Paris , recollected the Bell and Bottle inn ; he turned around , saw the sign by the light of a reflected lamp , and having dismissed the child , giving him all the small coin he had about him , he began knocking at the door , very reasonably concluding that having now three or four hours before him he had best fortify himself against the fatigues of the morrow by a sound sleep and a good supper .
galloping through the bushes. ” “ The count !
I will begin again , then : “ ‘ Order to conduct to—the person named Charlotte Backson , branded by the justice of the kingdom of France , but liberated after chastisement .
As for what you do me the honor to say , I presume you mean I was afraid ? ” The queen smiled .
Bonacieux ; “ it is a man I don ’ t know , although he seems to be coming here .
“ Remember , this is no affair of mine , ” said the trembling voice of La Carconte , as though through the flooring of her chamber she viewed the scene that was enacting below .
Supposing , also , I should persuade the marquis to give me my capital , which is not likely , but still is possible , we would place these two or three millions in your hands , whose talent might make it realize ten per cent. ” “ I never give more than four per cent , and generally only three and a half ; but to my son-in-law I would give five , and we would share the profits. ” “ Very good , father-in-law , ” said Cavalcanti , yielding to his low-born nature , which would escape sometimes through the aristocratic gloss with which he sought to conceal it .
You ask me why I have requested this interview ; I will tell you in two words , sir ; I will not marry count Andrea Cavalcanti. ” Danglars leaped from his chair and raised his eyes and arms towards heaven .
You appear to consider this a point of honor , and it may be for this reason , that you have delayed acknowledging your name .
Villefort dictated a petition , in which , from an excellent intention , no doubt , Dantès ’ patriotic services were exaggerated , and he was made out one of the most active agents of Napoleon ’ s return .
“ But what _have_ you done ? ” asked Franz .
“ You mean to say we _have lost_ , ” said Athos , quietly , drawing four pistoles from his pocket and throwing them upon the table .
But Rochefort , who had passed five years in prison , had become old in the lapse of a few years ; the dark locks of this estimable friend of the defunct Cardinal Richelieu were now white ; the deep bronze of his complexion had been succeeded by a mortal pallor which betokened debility .
Take it , and there ends the matter. ” “ What , ” cried Athos , “ are you selling my horse—my Bajazet ?
Chapter 70 .
Benedetto never again appeared at Rogliano , neither have I since that day either seen or heard anything concerning him .
“ Oh , dearest Marie !
Sometimes I amuse myself by delivering some bandit or criminal from the bonds of the law .
Then , rushing hastily out of the apartment , he ran upstairs , expecting to find his father in his study , but he rapped there in vain .
“ I once thought , ” continued Faria , “ of removing these iron bars , and letting myself down from the window , which , as you see , is somewhat wider than yours , although I should have enlarged it still more preparatory to my flight ; however , I discovered that I should merely have dropped into a sort of inner court , and I therefore renounced the project altogether as too full of risk and danger .
What have I said ? ” “ You said that Porthos had received a sword cut. ” “ Yes , but he has forbidden me so strictly to say so. ” “ And why so. ” “ Zounds , monsieur !
But let us leave off this strain , sir , if the tone of it is displeasing to you ; I am no more disturbed by your justice than are you by my second-sight. ” “ No , no , —by no means , ” said Villefort , who was afraid of seeming to abandon his ground .
Planchet followed the movements of his master as if he had been his shadow , and was soon trotting by his side .
“ On the contrary , stay , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ; your agreeable company will divert me. ” “ Oh , oh ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan .
go to !
The duke , more and more bewildered , let Grimaud loose and took the note .
“ Come , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ all this leads to nothing .
The baroness approached , leaning on Madame de Villefort ’ s arm .
They will know you are deserted , and think you also poor , for I alone know your real financial position , and am quite ready to give up my accounts as an honest partner. ” The dread with which the pale and motionless baroness listened to this , was equalled by the calm indifference with which Debray had spoken .
How could this rock , which weighed several tons , have been lifted to this spot , without the aid of many men ?
Behind the door-keeper walked a woman enveloped in a large veil , which completely concealed her .
If the serpent be dead , why not its brood ?
Her majesty did us the honor to ask our aid for her husband .
In order to meet the payments then due ; he had collected all his resources , and , fearing lest the report of his distress should get bruited abroad at Marseilles when he was known to be reduced to such an extremity , he went to the Beaucaire fair to sell his wife ’ s and daughter ’ s jewels and a portion of his plate .
Then he saw a woman of marvellous beauty appear on the threshold of the door separating the two rooms .
Sleep as soundly as you can tonight , and tomorrow , if you can , we will take our departure together. ” “ Till tomorrow , then , ” said Aramis ; “ for iron-nerved as you are , you must need repose. ” The next morning , when D ’ Artagnan entered Aramis ’ s chamber , he found him at the window .
The name was not wholly forgotten , but mixed up and confused with ancient recollections .
“ Would you like to see a camp of bandits in repose ? ” he inquired .
Then she continued her singing with inexpressible fervor and feeling .
D ’ Artagnan turned toward the musketeers and made a sign imperceptible to the crowd , but very easily understood by that chosen regiment , the flower of the army .
‘ He grants a full pardon to the Vizier Ali , and not only gives him his life , but restores to him his fortune and his possessions. ’ My mother uttered a cry of joy , and clasped me to her bosom .
“ I say that she is a hostage for the Parisians , ” answered the cardinal .
D ’ Artagnan crossed the quays , went out by the gate of La Conférence and followed the road , much more beautiful then than it is now , which leads to St .
“ We must go , ” replied Villefort , offering his arm .
0285m Evening came , and Edmond saw the island tinged with the shades of twilight , and then disappear in the darkness from all eyes but his own , for he , with vision accustomed to the gloom of a prison , continued to behold it last of all , for he remained alone upon deck .
“ D ’ Artagnan told me that he had recommended him to your care , in parting. ” “ Yes , count ; nor have I lost sight of him for a single instant since. ” “ Then , ” said Athos in a tone of delight , “ he is well ?
Grimaud moved as if to leave the room .
“ At least that will conciliate us all , ” said Aramis .
M. de Saint-Méran lived at Marseilles , so that this country house was useless to him , and it was reported to be let to a young widow , known only by the name of ‘ the Baroness. ’ “ One evening , as I was looking over the wall , I saw a young and handsome woman who was walking alone in that garden , which was not overlooked by any windows , and I guessed that she was awaiting M. de Villefort .
This last obstacle having been overcome , the troop pursued their course with their accustomed ardor ; but some of the horses could no longer sustain this pace ; three of them stopped after an hour ’ s gallop , and one fell down .
Yes—you .
There was a moment ’ s silence , during which Sinbad gave himself up to thoughts that seemed to occupy him incessantly , even in the midst of his conversation ; and Franz abandoned himself to that mute reverie , into which we always sink when smoking excellent tobacco , which seems to remove with its fume all the troubles of the mind , and to give the smoker in exchange all the visions of the soul .
The second interview between the former musketeers was not so formal and threatening as the first .
“ You see , ” said she , when the lackey had gone out , “ everything is ready .
Look here !
adieu ! ” And raising himself by a final effort , in which he summoned all his faculties , he said , — “ Monte Cristo , forget not Monte Cristo ! ” And he fell back on the bed .
If you do not come across one , return for me. ” The patron shook his head .
A loud cry could be heard by her .
“ Now , ” said Aramis , “ you will please to understand , gentlemen , that Bazin alone can carry this letter to Tours .
you ’ re welcome , sirs .
“ Madame , ” resumed Athos , “ two of my friends , named D ’ Artagnan and Monsieur du Vallon , sent to England by the cardinal , suddenly disappeared when they set foot on the shores of France ; no one knows what has become of them. ” “ Well ? ” said the queen .
shivering for want of a fagot !
“ Your majesty ’ s mind may be quite at ease , ” replied the officer ; “ I have my answer ready. ” The blinds were pulled down and they started at a gallop by the Rue Richelieu .
The very same day the occupants of the apartments on the fifth floor of the house , now become the property of Dantès , were duly informed by the notary who had arranged the necessary transfer of deeds , etc. , that the new landlord gave them their choice of any of the rooms in the house , without the least augmentation of rent , upon condition of their giving instant possession of the two small chambers they at present inhabited .
We came merely to inquire after your health and to take your orders. ” “ As to my health , since it has stood five years of prison , with Monsieur de Chavigny to boot , ’ tis excellent !
The nasturtiums and other plants , which his father had delighted to train before his window , had all disappeared from the upper part of the house .
He turned back , a door partly open enabled him to see his road , and to hear the voice of one in sorrow .
A short gallop brought them to the road of Chaillot ; the day began to decline , carriages were passing and repassing .
of Monsieur de Bouillon. ” “ My friend , I think that he is much troubled with gout. ” “ You noticed that I didn ’ t breathe a word as to the purpose of our visit ? ” “ You did well ; you would have caused him an access of his disease .
I will no longer detain you , M. de Villefort , for you must be fatigued after so long a journey ; go and rest .
Edmond made great exertions in order to comply ; but at each effort he fell back , moaning and turning pale .
My God , my Lord , I have long despised thee !
“ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ has it not been agreed that I should take you with me , and did I not tell you yesterday to prepare for departure ? ” “ I am ready , ” said Maximilian ; “ I came expressly to wish them farewell. ” “ Whither are you going , count ? ” asked Julie .
“ No doubt , my boy ; no doubt .
The next morning she found her grandmother in bed ; the fever had not abated , on the contrary her eyes glistened and she appeared to be suffering from violent nervous irritability .
“ But what has become of M. d ’ Épinay ? ” replied Morrel .
“ Dear Benedetto , ” said he , “ I think he will not be sorry to inherit his fortune , and he who hastens the day when he can touch his five hundred thousand will not be his worst friend. ” Chapter 82 .
The Carriage of Monsieur le Coadjuteur .
My mother pressed me to her throbbing heart , and at the distance of a few paces I saw my father , who was glancing anxiously around .
“ Edward ! ” he stammered— “ Edward ! ” The child did not answer .
“ The second night the door opened ; I was lying on the floor , for my strength began to abandon me .
“ Flying through an army , sire , ” said Athos , “ in all countries in the world is called charging. ” “ Then I shall die , sword in hand , ” said Charles .
You understand that you are in no way obliged to go with me. ” “ Come , now , ” said Athos , “ you are joking. ” “ In that case , my dear friend , if you are resolved to accompany me there is no time to lose ; the drum beats ; I observed cannon on the road ; I saw the citizens in order of battle on the Place of the Hotel de Ville ; certainly the fight will be in the direction of Charenton , as the Duc de Chatillon said. ” “ I supposed , ” said Athos , “ that last night ’ s conferences would modify those warlike arrangements. ” “ No doubt ; but they will fight , none the less , if only to mask the conferences. ” “ Poor creatures ! ” said Athos , “ who are going to be killed , in order that Monsieur de Bouillon may have his estate at Sedan restored to him , that the reversion of the admiralty may be given to the Duc de Beaufort , and that the coadjutor may be made a cardinal. ” “ Come , come , dear Athos , confess that you would not be so philosophical if your Raoul were to be involved in this affair. ” “ Perhaps you speak the truth , Aramis. ” “ Well , let us go , then , where the fighting is , for that is the most likely place to meet with D ’ Artagnan , Porthos , and possibly even Raoul .
D ’ Artagnan came again on the morrow , and was still better received than on the evening before .
A few words sufficed for a mutual understanding between the two officers of the law .
The day was as gay as the preceding one , perhaps even more animated and noisy ; the count appeared for an instant at his window , but when they again passed he had disappeared .
“ Hold your tongue , hypocrite , ” said Andrea ; “ you love me ! ” “ Yes , I do , or may the devil take me .
Adieu. ” Thereupon he returned in a lively mood to his room and sent to the Swiss the things that belonged to him .
Then they came and boasted of their fine exploit in the cabaret of the next village , where my brother and I were drinking. ” “ And what did you do ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ And what does he say ? ” asked Porthos , in a self-sufficient tone .
“ I beg you to understand , sir , I will go no farther unless you tell me whither you are taking me. ” This threat brought no reply .
If I remember rightly , it had another entrance , and the courtyard was paved and empty ; while today we have a splendid lawn , bordered by trees which appear to be a hundred years old. ” “ Why not ?
I have acquired certain knowledge that that woman was concerned in the abduction of Madame Bonacieux. ” “ Yes , I understand now : to find one woman , you court another .
“ I do not seek your confidence , my dear friend .
And what may be that description ? ” “ Dark complexion ; hair , eyebrows , and whiskers black ; blue frock-coat , buttoned up to the chin ; rosette of an officer of the Legion of Honor in his button-hole ; a hat with wide brim , and a cane. ” “ Ah , ha , that ’ s it , is it ? ” said Noirtier ; “ and why , then , have they not laid hands on him ? ” “ Because yesterday , or the day before , they lost sight of him at the corner of the Rue Coq-Héron. ” “ Didn ’ t I say that your police were good for nothing ? ” “ Yes ; but they may catch him yet. ” “ True , ” said Noirtier , looking carelessly around him , “ true , if this person were not on his guard , as he is ; ” and he added with a smile , “ He will consequently make a few changes in his personal appearance. ” At these words he rose , and put off his frock-coat and cravat , went towards a table on which lay his son ’ s toilet articles , lathered his face , took a razor , and , with a firm hand , cut off the compromising whiskers .
this edifice which I have been so long preparing , which I have reared with so much care and toil , is to be crushed by a single touch , a word , a breath !
If you had seen at what a pace he came—like the wind ! ” “ I should think so , —a horse that cost 5,000 francs ! ” said Monte Cristo , in the tone which a father would use towards a son .
“ On our arrival in Paris , we shall still have four hundred , besides the harnesses , ” said Porthos .
You have done your duty , and your conscience will be at rest. ” Valentine fell on her knees , and pressed her almost bursting heart .
Chapter LXVIII .
His confidence had unveiled the sinister project of the queen .
But he had scarcely left before Danglars , with an energy of action those can alone understand who have seen Robert Macaire represented by Frédérick,24 exclaimed : “ Fool ! ” Then enclosing Monte Cristo ’ s receipt in a little pocket-book , he added : — “ Yes , come at twelve o ’ clock ; I shall then be far away. ” Then he double-locked his door , emptied all his drawers , collected about fifty thousand francs in bank-notes , burned several papers , left others exposed to view , and then commenced writing a letter which he addressed : “ To Madame la Baronne Danglars. ” “ I will place it on her table myself tonight , ” he murmured .
ho ! ” exclaimed the latter , “ the cardinal !
“ ‘ “ Now am I at liberty to retire ? ” said the general .
But amid all this he perceived , with a feeling of real joy , that the queen must have discovered the prison in which poor Mme .
It had been handed down from father to son ; for the singular clause of the only will that had been found , had caused it to be regarded as a genuine relic , preserved in the family with superstitious veneration .
His secret , then , was in the past , as had often been vaguely said to D ’ Artagnan .
They looked at the cord , still hanging from the loophole and broken at about twenty feet from the ground .
I beg you will remove your bandage. ” It may be supposed , then , Franz did not wait for a repetition of this permission , but took off the handkerchief , and found himself in the presence of a man from thirty-eight to forty years of age , dressed in a Tunisian costume , that is to say , a red cap with a long blue silk tassel , a vest of black cloth embroidered with gold , pantaloons of deep red , large and full gaiters of the same color , embroidered with gold like the vest , and yellow slippers ; he had a splendid cashmere round his waist , and a small sharp and crooked cangiar was passed through his girdle .
Let us sell the diamond .
The vision had fled ; and as if the statues had been but shadows from the tomb , they had vanished at his waking .
Someone has vexed you ; I will allow no one to annoy you. ” “ You are deceived , Lucien , I assure you , ” replied Madame Danglars ; “ and what I have told you is really the case , added to the ill-humor you remarked , but which I did not think it worth while to allude to. ” It was evident that Madame Danglars was suffering from that nervous irritability which women frequently can not account for even to themselves ; or that , as Debray had guessed , she had experienced some secret agitation that she would not acknowledge to anyone .
The latter , faithful to the principle of Horace , _nil admirari_ , had contented himself with showing his knowledge by declaring in what lake the best lampreys were caught .
He grew pale and red alternately ; and the cardinal saw at once that he had recovered by a single blow all the ground he had lost .
Mordaunt did the same and recognized the gentleman , around whom the three other Frenchmen were standing , pale and menacing .
“ Now , sir , ” said Monte Cristo , addressing Andrea , “ make your confession. ” “ To whom ? ” “ Tell M. Cavalcanti something of the state of your finances. ” “ _Ma foi ! _ monsieur , you have touched upon a tender chord. ” “ Do you hear what he says , major ? ” “ Certainly I do. ” “ But do you understand ? ” “ I do. ” “ Your son says he requires money. ” “ Well , what would you have me do ? ” said the major .
They had told him to hope for it , but had not told him what was to be hidden in the mysterious pate .
Go , my son—go , my dear Gérard , and by your obedience to my paternal orders , or , if you prefer it , friendly counsels , we will keep you in your place .
You must love somebody ? ” “ No , I am alone in the world. ” “ Then you will love me .
What injury has Fernand Mondego done you in betraying Ali Tepelini ? ” “ Ah , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ all this is an affair between the French captain and the daughter of Vasiliki .
I remained in the room and waited. ” “ Oh , Heaven ! ” 30271m When daylight dawned I went down again .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan sides with Mazarin !
News from your father , do you hear , Henrietta ?
“ I understand , ” he said , “ you confess ; but a confession made to the judges , a confession made at the last moment , extorted when the crime can not be denied , diminishes not the punishment inflicted on the guilty ! ” “ The punishment ? ” exclaimed Madame de Villefort , “ the punishment , monsieur ?
“ Spada knew what these invitations meant ; since Christianity , so eminently civilizing , had made progress in Rome , it was no longer a centurion who came from the tyrant with a message , ‘ Cæsar wills that you die. ’ but it was a legate _à latere_ , who came with a smile on his lips to say from the pope , ‘ His holiness requests you to dine with him. ’ “ Spada set out about two o ’ clock to San Pierdarena .
Jussac fell like a dead mass .
The royal procession set out for Paris .
Fernand ’ s paleness appeared to have communicated itself to Danglars .
“ Ah , my dear fellow , excuse me ; I am lodged like a Chartreux .
But they could discern nothing but a man of middle height , dressed in black , apparently of a certain age , for the end of a gray beard peeped out from the bottom of the mask that hid his features .
“ In the first place , you will sup with me , will you not ? ” asked Aramis .
“ Where were you born ? ” continued the president .
He stationed himself in a room commanding a view of the street , pacing the chamber with restless steps , stopping merely to listen from time to time for the sound of approaching wheels , then to cast an anxious glance on Ali ; but the regularity with which the Nubian puffed forth the smoke of his chibouque proved that he at least was wholly absorbed in the enjoyment of his favorite occupation .
“ Well , well , ” said M. Morrel , “ I know there was no one in fault but destiny .
You speak of him very much at your ease , Aramis ; he has probably been killed .
He then seemed more easy .
A few seconds afterward D ’ Artagnan also went out enveloped in a large cloak , which ill-concealed the sheath of a long sword .
Chapter LXXVIII .
“ Is the abbé at home ? ” asked he .
“ You ought , I say , then , to husband the means you have , however large the sum may be ; but you ought also to endeavor to perfect yourself in the exercises becoming a gentleman .
“ Yes , my lord. ” “ Well enough to question him in that language ? ” “ Yes , my lord. ” “ Question him , then. ” Raoul began the examination , but the result justified his opinion .
“ What are we to do , Maltese ? ” asked the captain .
“ That ’ s true , ” said he , quietly , “ for my part I have never loved. ” “ Acknowledge , then , you stony heart , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ that you are wrong to be so hard upon us tender hearts. ” “ Tender hearts !
“ Does the letter contain anything valuable ? ” demanded the host , after a few minutes of useless investigation .
M. de Tréville approved of the resolution he had adopted , and assured him that if on the morrow he did not appear , he himself would undertake to find him , let him be where he might .
“ Sir ! ” he thus addressed D ’ Artagnan , “ your resistance is useless ; these prisoners have just been given me by my illustrious patron , Oliver Cromwell. ” These words struck D ’ Artagnan like a thunderbolt .
“ Now , my dear count , ” he said , “ let us on with all the speed we may .
Alas !
Every blow was accompanied with terrible imprecations .
“ And does the husband of this frightful creature still live ? ” said Aramis .
The staircase creaked , he descended into the room below , approached the fire and lit a candle .
“ _Ma foi_ , my dear viscount , you are fated to hear music this evening ; you have only escaped from Mademoiselle Danglars ’ piano , to be attacked by Haydée ’ s guzla. ” “ Haydée—what an adorable name !
What then ? ” “ Well , he is a man. ” Porthos looked at D ’ Artagnan in astonishment .
So much the worse for you , for by such conduct you have lost my esteem and my patronage .
M. de Villefort had not seen his father since the morning of the death .
Oh , I assure you , sir , it was a touching spectacle to see these young creatures , destined by their talents for higher stations , toiling together , and through their unwillingness to change any of the customs of their paternal house , taking six years to accomplish what less scrupulous people would have effected in two or three .
_Le Blanc_ was not a fast animal , but he kept up an easy , steady pace ; in three hours and a half Andrea had traversed the nine leagues which separated him from Compiègne , and four o ’ clock struck as he reached the place where the coaches stop .
You speak like the Apocalypse , and you are as true as the Gospel .
The English—do they dislike wine ? ” “ They hate it. ” “ But I have seen them drink it. ” “ As a punishment .
‘ Well , I fortunately recognize you !
“ Richelieu , whom they hated during his lifetime and whom they now praise after his death , was even less popular than I am .
Bonacieux dead , and D ’ Artagnan in a swoon .
Porthos consoled himself by filling the antechamber of M. de Tréville and the guardroom of the Louvre with the accounts of his love scrapes , after having passed from professional ladies to military ladies , from the lawyer ’ s dame to the baroness , there was question of nothing less with Porthos than a foreign princess , who was enormously fond of him .
“ Give your orders. ” “ Have you kitchens here ? ” “ Kitchens ? —of course—complete ones. ” “ And cooks ? ” “ Excellent ! ” “ Well , a fowl , fish , game , —it signifies little , so that I eat. ” “ As your excellency pleases .
He questioned her with his eyes , but the firm and steady gaze of the young girl controlled his look .
With that you may be satisfied he can make his way , both going and returning. ” “ In that case , ” said Athos , “ Planchet must receive seven hundred livres for going , and seven hundred livres for coming back ; and Bazin , three hundred livres for going , and three hundred livres for returning—that will reduce the sum to five thousand livres .
“ Before or after , whichever you please. ” “ Opposite the scaffold ? ” “ The scaffold forms part of the _fête_. ” “ Count , I have reflected on the matter , ” said Franz , “ I thank you for your courtesy , but I shall content myself with accepting a place in your carriage and at your window at the Rospoli Palace , and I leave you at liberty to dispose of my place at the Piazza del Popolo. ” “ But I warn you , you will lose a very curious sight , ” returned the count .
“ You should recognize him among a thousand , say you ? ” continued he .
I will pay twenty-five piastres for my passage back to Leghorn .
The queen herself does not dare to oppose the terrible minister .
“ I sometimes wonder , ” replied Athos , smiling at that gayety which recalled the good old days , “ that we could form an association of men who would be , after twenty years of separation , still so closely bound together .
Ah , I recollect , you asked for a place at my window ; you shall have it ; but let us first sit down to table , for here comes the servant to inform us that breakfast is ready. ” As he spoke , a servant opened one of the four doors of the apartment , saying : “ _Al suo commodo ! _ ” The two young men arose and entered the breakfast-room .
“ It was worn by my father , a loyal gentleman .
“ Now then , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ this is something like ; this is a means of communication .
Although General d ’ Épinay served under Napoleon , did he not still retain royalist sentiments ?
“ Not even me ? ” asked the count with deep emotion .
This is something new , ” replied the king .
This singular passion for a child of seven may some day make him very unhappy .
Porthos had Bicarat , and Aramis found himself opposed to two adversaries .
Blaisois , a tall , simple youth , who understood nothing but what he was expressly told , asked , therefore for the Abbé d ’ Herblay , and in spite of Bazin ’ s assurances that his master was not at home , he persisted in such a manner as to put Bazin into a passion .
“ Ah , what else is there ? ” said Danglars ; “ for , at present , I can not say that I have seen anything extraordinary .
forward ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan , in his stentorian voice ; “ we shall laugh over all this in five minutes. ” And they darted on anew .
Each of them took one , which Ali lighted and then retired to prepare the coffee .
It goes without saying that when he saw a Huguenot coming , he felt himself filled with such ardent Catholic zeal that he could not understand how , a quarter of an hour before , he had been able to have any doubts upon the superiority of our holy religion .
I can not thus , in a moment relinquish the respect , the confidence , and pride with which a father ’ s untarnished name inspires a son .
Take the stairs on your right ; go up the first flight and knock at Number One .
Near her was the instrument on which she had just been playing ; it was elegantly fashioned , and worthy of its mistress .
“ Why , he was so called as truly as I myself bore the appellation of Gaspard Caderousse ; but tell me , I pray , what has become of poor Edmond ?
That will insure his confidence. ” Athos smiled .
your body is covered with a coating of fat which preserves it from the cold air. ” “ Ah !
No , no , you must first say if you declare yourself for the king of a day who now reigns , or for his majesty the emperor. ” “ ‘ “ I am a royalist , ” replied the general ; “ I have taken the oath of allegiance to Louis XVIII. , and I will adhere to it. ” These words were followed by a general murmur , and it was evident that several of the members were discussing the propriety of making the general repent of his rashness .
Bravo , D ’ Artagnan !
Chapter LXXV .
Is it Madame de Morcerf who has displeased you ?
It was true that this order would not be of great use to them while they were in camp at La Rochelle ; that is to say , at the other end of France .
“ And now , my dear Athos , ” said he , “ do me the kindness to tell me where we are going ? ” “ Why , you see plainly enough we are going to the bastion. ” “ But what are we going to do there ? ” “ You know well that we go to breakfast there. ” “ But why did we not breakfast at the Parpaillot ? ” “ Because we have very important matters to communicate to one another , and it was impossible to talk five minutes in that inn without being annoyed by all those importunate fellows , who keep coming in , saluting you , and addressing you .
A few men , the least impressed of all by the scene , pronounced a discourse , some deploring this premature death , others expatiating on the grief of the father , and one very ingenious person quoting the fact that Valentine had solicited pardon of her father for criminals on whom the arm of justice was ready to fall—until at length they exhausted their stores of metaphor and mournful speeches , elaborate variations on the stanzas of Malherbe to Du Périer .
“ And I , also , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I also .
“ Well , sir , ” said the abbé , “ you have spoken unreservedly ; and thus to accuse yourself is to deserve pardon. ” “ Unfortunately , Edmond is dead , and has not pardoned me. ” “ He did not know , ” said the abbé .
The Apparition As the procureur had told Madame Danglars , Valentine was not yet recovered .
Thinking of all this , and from time to time giving a touch of the spur to his horse , D ’ Artagnan completed his short journey , and arrived at St. Germain .
Scarcely had dawn gilded his window curtains when he sprang out of bed and opened the windows .
Mazarin did not even turn around .
“ Yes , count , you know what I told you ? ” “ All remains the same , then , in that quarter ? ” “ It is more than ever a settled thing , ” said Lucien , —and , considering that this remark was all that he was at that time called upon to make , he adjusted the glass to his eye , and biting the top of his gold headed cane , began to make the tour of the apartment , examining the arms and the pictures .
And as it is three months since you have been here , and though , distracted as you must be in your important occupations , you have forgotten to pay me my rent—as , I say , I have not tormented you a single instant , I thought you would appreciate my delicacy. ” “ How can it be otherwise , my dear Bonacieux ? ” replied D ’ Artagnan ; “ trust me , I am fully grateful for such unparalleled conduct , and if , as I told you , I can be of any service to you— ” “ I believe you , monsieur , I believe you ; and as I was about to say , by the word of Bonacieux , I have confidence in you. ” “ Finish , then , what you were about to say. ” The citizen took a paper from his pocket , and presented it to D ’ Artagnan .
Since Lord de Winter left him I am distracted , sirs .
“ _Pardieu_ , ” resumed the latter , twisting his mustache , “ look at me as long as you like , my little gentleman !
Observe , ” said Villefort , smiling , “ I do not mean to deny that both these men were revolutionary scoundrels , and that the 9th Thermidor and the 4th of April , in the year 1814 , were lucky days for France , worthy of being gratefully remembered by every friend to monarchy and civil order ; and that explains how it comes to pass that , fallen , as I trust he is forever , Napoleon has still retained a train of parasitical satellites .
Franz took the letter , and read : “ Tuesday evening , at seven o ’ clock , descend from your carriage opposite the Via dei Pontefici , and follow the Roman peasant who snatches your torch from you .
I must seem to you by no means curious , but I assure you that it is not my fault I have delayed it so long—it will happen one day or the other. ” 20083m “ And do you propose to make this journey very shortly ? ” “ I do not know ; it depends on circumstances which depend on certain arrangements. ” “ I should like to be there at the time you come , and I will endeavor to repay you , as far as lies in my power , for your liberal hospitality displayed to me at Monte Cristo. ” “ I should avail myself of your offer with pleasure , ” replied the host , “ but , unfortunately , if I go there , it will be , in all probability , _incognito_. ” The supper appeared to have been supplied solely for Franz , for the unknown scarcely touched one or two dishes of the splendid banquet to which his guest did ample justice .
Bonacieux would run of meeting at the convent of Béthune with Milady , her mortal enemy .
Oh , yes , yes ; be assured I shall save you !
“ Oh , heavens , ” exclaimed Monte Cristo , “ can my suspicions be correct ?
“ MY DEAR COUSIN , I think I shall make up my mind to set out for Béthune , where my sister has placed our little servant in the convent of the Carmelites ; this poor child is quite resigned , as she knows she can not live elsewhere without the salvation of her soul being in danger .
I will not make a confidant of him. ” “ Alas ! ” said Valentine , “ I see that I have given you pain .
sir , ’ tis this very coating of fat that makes me shiver. ” “ How is that , Mousqueton ?
Keep up the dance , then , since he will have it so .
He bowed to him , then , full of gratitude for the past and for the future ; and the worthy captain , who on his side felt a lively interest in this young man , so brave and so resolute , pressed his hand kindly , wishing him a pleasant journey .
He descended fifteen steps , and the door of a dungeon was opened , and he was thrust in .
Keep the purse for your lackeys. ” D ’ Artagnan put the purse into his pocket .
“ Then let us sit down , ” said Villefort impatiently , “ for it will take some time. ” “ Sit down , ” said the old man .
Two persons passed near me—allow me to conceal their names for the present ; they were speaking in an undertone , and yet I was so interested in what they said that I did not lose a single word. ” “ This is a gloomy introduction , if I may judge from your pallor and shuddering , Morrel. ” “ Oh , yes , very gloomy , my friend .
The Cemetery of Père-Lachaise Chapter 106 .
“ That is a serious thing. ” Monte Cristo , who pretended not to be listening , heard however , every word that was said .
Keep the lieutenancy , my dear , keep it. ” The young man then entered the apartment of Aramis .
The noise of the waves dashing against the rocks on which the château is built , reached Dantès ’ ear distinctly as they went forward .
I learned it since I have been in prison , and that from the conversation of Monsieur the Commissary—an amiable man. ” The cardinal repressed another smile .
Now , this point was settled ; Mme .
“ I don ’ t know them , but the four other noblemen called the Englishman ‘ my lord. ’ ” “ Was the woman handsome ? ” “ Young and beautiful .
Mother Nanette ! ” cried Friquet , suffocating ; “ ah !
Mazarin being thus placed beyond the pale of the protection of the law , preparations on both sides were commenced—by the queen , to attack Paris , by the citizens , to defend it .
Edmond heard the creaking of the bed as they moved the corpse , heard the voice of the governor , who asked them to throw water on the dead man ’ s face ; and seeing that , in spite of this application , the prisoner did not recover , they sent for the doctor .
“ Much money to be gained ? ” said Bonacieux , protruding his lip .
Ten minutes afterwards , General Morcerf was seen on the steps in a black coat with a military collar , black pantaloons , and black gloves .
Then , accustomed to passive obedience , he jumped down from the terrace , ran toward the lane , and at the end of twenty paces met D ’ Artagnan , who , having seen all , was coming to him .
“ And why did you refuse , my son ? ” inquired the old man .
Let this affair be talked of , it will be a triumph for them , which will make them rejoice , and cover me with shame .
When I live at Auteuil , you must come there , as you belong to my service. ” Bertuccio hung down his head before the imperious look of his master , and remained motionless , without making any answer .
“ Come , Raoul , ” he said , “ let us follow this man. ” The verger opened the iron grating that guarded the royal tombs and stood on the topmost step , whilst Athos and Raoul descended .
Additional terms will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work .
D ’ Artagnan , who was by nature very curious—as people generally are who possess the genius of intrigue—did all he could to make out who Athos , Porthos , and Aramis really were ( for under these pseudonyms each of these young men concealed his family name ) —Athos in particular , who , a league away , savored of nobility .
The _Agamemnon_ of Aeschylus is based on this legend .
I thought so ; but we will return to my Lord Duke presently .
Franz could even feel her arm tremble as he assisted her into the carriage .
They had talked of no one but Morcerf the whole day .
It was Mercédès leaning on her son ’ s arm and leaving the house .
More than half an hour passed before any one could make himself heard .
“ Look , Emmanuel. ” Then turning towards Monte Cristo , “ Count , ” said he , “ in the name of all that is dear to you , I entreat you not to kill Albert ! —the unhappy youth has a mother. ” “ You are right , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ and I have none. ” These words were uttered in a tone which made Morrel shudder .
He was a strong-minded , upright young man .
As to the rest , in eight days you will be where you ought to be , and my task will be completed. ” “ Infamous task !
Gentlemen , I have not forgotten the night in which you served me as an escort to the Red Dovecot .
Returned home with Athos , Aramis and Porthos inquired eagerly the cause of the strange interview ; but D ’ Artagnan confined himself to telling them that M. de Richelieu had sent for him to propose to him to enter into his guards with the rank of ensign , and that he had refused .
I felt pain ; I wished to cry out , but an icy shiver ran through my veins and stifled my voice ; I fell lifeless , and fancied myself killed .
A cavalier , charged with an important mission , had come an hour before your arrival , seeking hospitality , at the very moment that the curé , summoned to the bedside of a dying person , left not only his house but the village , for the entire night .
It is with valets as with wives , they must be placed at once upon the footing in which you wish them to remain .
Morrel fell back in his chair , his eyes fixed on the clock ; there were seven minutes left , that was all .
By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work , you indicate that you have read , understand , agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property ( trademark/copyright ) agreement .
“ What shall we do ? ” said Athos .
After having stood a few minutes in the cavern , the atmosphere of which was rather warm than damp , Dantès ’ eye , habituated as it was to darkness , could pierce even to the remotest angles of the cavern , which was of granite that sparkled like diamonds .
One of them recognized him .
Ali Pasha was killed , as you know , but before he died he recompensed the services of Fernand by leaving him a considerable sum , with which he returned to France , when he was gazetted lieutenant-general. ” “ So that now—— ? ” inquired the abbé .
“ Your holiness ! ” said Gondy ; “ my friend , you take me for some one else. ” “ No , your holiness , I take you for what you are , that is to say , the coadjutor ; I recognized you at the first glance. ” Gondy smiled .
The interests of that kingdom and those of England , though taking now diverse directions , are very nearly the same .
The executioner walked behind them , and Lord de Winter , D ’ Artagnan , Porthos , and Aramis walked behind the executioner .
30341m Then Morrel saw that he had been right in believing that the house was not illuminated .
Grimaud had now finished his accounts .
“ It is unfortunate , ” returned he , “ that you have never visited the environs , for I wish to see my new property this evening , and had you gone with me , you could have given me some useful information. ” “ To Auteuil ! ” cried Bertuccio , whose copper complexion became livid— “ I go to Auteuil ? ” “ Well , what is there surprising in that ?
The brigadier sent for some sticks and straw , and having filled the chimney with them , set a light to it .
“ I was about to say to these gentlemen , ” added he , “ that I forbid my Musketeers to expose their lives needlessly ; for brave men are very dear to the king , and the king knows that his Musketeers are the bravest on the earth .
The carriage creaked and rattled as it flew over the rough stones , and the slightest obstacle under the wheels would have caused disaster ; but it kept on in the middle of the road , and those who saw it pass uttered cries of terror .
He added that he did not know either M. or Mme .
“ Quite alone ? ” he asked .
The boy , the hostess , and all the house had the same regard for D ’ Artagnan that one would have for Hercules should he return to earth to repeat his twelve labors .
And you are going to Portsmouth ? ” “ I have no time to lose .
Perhaps those prayers may soften the remorse he feels in his heart .
“ I have now to confess to you .
Devil take it , ” he muttered to himself , “ don ’ t let me betray my secrets to a man not inclined to entertain them. ” “ Well , then , ” said Athos , “ what are your schemes ?
The king ( Don Carlos ) has not left Bourges , and the peninsula is in the enjoyment of profound peace .
Well , but we should be taken out of prison ; Madame Bonacieux was released .
For example , look at the puritanical procureur , who has just lost his daughter , and in fact nearly all his family , in so singular a manner ; Morcerf dishonored and dead ; and then myself covered with ridicule through the villany of Benedetto ; besides—— ” “ Besides what ? ” asked the Count .
Yet he could not restrain a hope that in Italy , as elsewhere , there might be an exception to the general rule .
“ Alas , ” said she , “ I did all for the best !
“ Well , you , ” said Porthos , “ what then ? ” “ I can not wait. ” “ Oh !
“ ‘ Will you allow me , father ? ’ said Carmela .
At the same moment , whilst D ’ Artagnan was leaning over the aperture to listen , a metallic sound , as if some one was moving a bag of gold , struck on his ear ; he started ; instantly afterward a door opened and a light played upon the staircase .
“ Yes , my friend. ” “ A presentation ?
“ Now , Mousqueton , ” he said , “ I hope you don ’ t mean to desert your master ? ” “ Ah , sir , ” replied Mousqueton , his eyes filling with tears , “ why did you re-enter the army ?
“ Well done , Guitant , ” cried the cardinal to the equestrian ; “ I see plainly that , notwithstanding the sixty-four years that have passed over your head , you are still the same man , active and zealous .
Bazin scratched at the door , and as Aramis had no longer any reason to exclude him , he bade him come in .
“ ‘ The abbé told me it was worth 50,000 francs , ’ muttered Caderousse .
He was cautioned not to let a bit of straw out of his hands under a louis the truss , and they intrusted to him straw to the amount of four hundred and thirty louis .
After a wild youth , he had retired into a convent , there to expiate , at least for some time , the follies of adolescence .
Now , these reflections had led him further than he intended , and the day was beginning to decline when , by the last ray of the setting sun , he thought he saw the barrel of a musket glitter from behind a hedge .
Besides , it was necessary he should stay at Chantilly to wait for the answer from his duchess .
Behind the executioner came , in the order in which they were to die , first Peppino and then Andrea .
Why I think that they are rising faster than they have any business to do , and that they would not be so black if they didn ’ t mean mischief. ’ — ‘ That ’ s my opinion too , ’ said the captain , ‘ and I ’ ll take precautions accordingly .
Why should that man give me a false diamond ? ” 0349m “ To get your secret without paying for it , you blockhead ! ” Caderousse remained for a moment aghast under the weight of such an idea .
and not without a deal of trouble , too. ” “ Has the executioner left London ? ” asked Athos .
“ Where is this lemonade ? ” asked the doctor eagerly .
“ Doctor , do you hear them call for help ? ” “ Yes , yes ; let us hasten up ; it was in Valentine ’ s room. ” But before the doctor and the father could reach the room , the servants who were on the same floor had entered , and seeing Valentine pale and motionless on her bed , they lifted up their hands towards heaven and stood transfixed , as though struck by lightening .
“ Faith , no , thank Heaven ! ” replied Raoul ; “ but what has become of the poor wretches whom these scoundrels were murdering ? ” “ I fear we arrived too late .
One day you will be able to understand how all this is. ” “ Well , then , to the king , your nephew .
“ Yes , yes , ” continued M. de Tréville , growing warmer as he spoke , “ and his majesty was right ; for , upon my honor , it is true that the Musketeers make but a miserable figure at court .
The plate was magnificent , old , and appertaining to the family .
It is not the queen with whom the people are displeased ; they ask for Broussel and are only too happy , if you release him to them , to live under your government. ” Mazarin , who at the words , “ It is not the queen with whom the people are displeased , ” had pricked up his ears , thinking that the coadjutor was about to speak of the cries , “ Down with Mazarin , ” and pleased with Gondy ’ s suppression of this fact , he said with his sweetest voice and his most gracious expression : “ Madame , credit the coadjutor , who is one of the most able politicians we have ; the first available cardinal ’ s hat seems to belong already to his noble brow. ” “ Ah !
He felt a slight disappointment , however , when he saw that this place was already taken by a compeer named Mousqueton , and when Porthos signified to him that the state of his household , though great , would not support two servants , and that he must enter into the service of D ’ Artagnan .
Of the two persons who composed this group , one was a man and the other a woman .
With your talents you would make your fortune in three or four years. ” “ I only await one thing before following your advice ; that is , a minister who will hold office for six months .
The day was passed at Saint Peter ’ s alone .
Your song is as dismal as a ‘ De profundis ’ ; and if besides the pleasure of being in garrison here , we must hear such things as these , no mortal can hold out. ” “ Silence ! ” then exclaimed another stern voice which Milady recognized as that of Felton .
Many young men of Palestrina , Frascati , and Pampinara had disappeared .
“ The monk ! ” cried the host ; “ where is the monk ? ” Grimaud sprang toward an open window which looked into the courtyard .
One day , as I was conveying my wife back to the Louvre , he was coming out as she was going in , and she showed him to me. ” “ The devil !
“ Oh !
I am all that is left to her belonging to my poor Renée , whom you have so soon forgotten , sir. ” “ Ah , madame , ” said Villefort , “ you forget that I was obliged to give a mother to my child. ” “ A stepmother is never a mother , sir .
The count looked around him .
I recognized your name in it .
“ For the last time , where are you going ? ” “ To the devil ! ” answered D ’ Artagnan .
Well , then , you shall see it now. ” In a second D ’ Artagnan had made three terrible thrusts at Mordaunt , all of which touched , but only pricked him .
Oh , it would be a sacrilege .
Bernouin cast an inquisitorial glance at the person of the young man and entered the cabinet of the cardinal , to whom he transmitted the messenger ’ s words .
Aramis awaited him with that terrible smile which was peculiar to him on such occasions , and Athos , who saw the duke advancing toward Aramis with the rapidity of lightning , was just going to cry out , “ Fire !
“ Behind the women came a guard of twenty men armed with long guns and pistols , and dressed in the costume which the Greeks have assumed since they have again become a nation .
The instant Debray had touched the ground , he was at the carriage-door .
“ Impossible , doctor ; it is too late ; my throat is closing up .
Halloo !
never ! —I could not ! ” “ To me , to a brother ? ” said Felton .
You have done well to warn me .
“ Only that our enemies have escaped ; they have cut the cord and gone off with the boat. ” Mordaunt bounded with one step to the cabin and kicked open the door .
“ You knew the poor lad , then ? ” continued Caderousse .
It was you who rode off at the moment I had that unfortunate difference with the gentleman you speak of. ” “ Yes , it was I ; so you may plainly perceive that you have no mercy to expect if you do not tell me the whole truth. ” “ Condescend to listen to me , and you shall know all. ” “ I listen. ” “ I had been warned by the authorities that a celebrated coiner of bad money would arrive at my inn , with several of his companions , all disguised as Guards or Musketeers .
madame , ” cried Mazarin , “ you have ruined us all—the king , yourself and me. ” At this cry from the soul of the frightened cardinal , Anne became alarmed in her turn and would have recalled Comminges .
The one seemed to be deprived of reason , yet he was meditating .
Each one asked what strange influence had brought them to this house , and yet astonished , even uneasy though they were , they still felt that they would not like to be absent .
But the rock was too heavy , and too firmly wedged , to be moved by anyone man , were he Hercules himself .
“ This same waiting maid seems to have an agreeable style , ” said the messenger , carelessly .
It was a strange thing that no one ever appeared to advance a step in that man ’ s favor .
“ And how do you know there is a young woman whom I love , and that I believed that woman dead ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ ‘ Here is a young man who seeks and wishes to speak to you , ’ said the sentinel .
General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone .
“ Give up Broussel ! ” she cried ; “ fine counsel , indeed .
“ It is not a question of the past , but of the present , ” said the queen ; “ you said you could give me advice—what is it ? ” “ Madame , ” said the chancellor , hesitating , “ it would be to release Broussel. ” The queen , although already pale , became visibly paler and her face was contracted .
The garden became darker still , but in the darkness he looked in vain for the white dress , and in the silence he vainly listened for the sound of footsteps .
A bell resounded .
He recalled a bit of advice which Athos had once given him , and made his horse rear .
Another reigns in her name .
The two musketeers arrived in their turn , holding the horses of D ’ Artagnan and Porthos in their hands .
Do you wish to go to M. Danglars ?
He knew that it was barren and without shelter ; but when the sea became more calm , he resolved to plunge into its waves again , and swim to Lemaire , equally arid , but larger , and consequently better adapted for concealment .
Dantès examined the various articles shown to him with the same attention that he had bestowed on the curiosities and strange tools exhibited in the shops at Marseilles as the works of the savages in the South Seas from whence they had been brought by the different trading vessels .
Everything is ready , is it not ? ” “ Yes. ” “ The cargo on board ? ” “ Yes. ” “ Five full casks ? ” “ And fifty empty ones. ” “ Good. ” “ We are carrying port wine to Anvers. ” “ Excellent .
What has the count done ?
The cart was returning empty to Paris , and the two lackeys had agreed , for their transport , to slake the wagoner ’ s thirst along the route .
The agent of Thomson & French had not been again seen at Marseilles ; the day after , or two days after his visit to Morrel , he had disappeared ; and as in that city he had had no intercourse but with the mayor , the inspector of prisons , and M. Morrel , his departure left no trace except in the memories of these three persons .
“ Ah ! ” said the king , “ we shall soon see whether my Highlanders have betrayed me or not. ” “ What are you going to do ? ” exclaimed Athos .
“ Madame , ” replied De Winter , “ provided I can find some of my good old friends of former times I will answer for anything. ” “ Come then , my lord , ” said the queen , with the painful doubt that is felt by those who have suffered much ; “ come , and may Heaven hear you. ” Chapter XXXVII .
Now , that way of joining them is not very attractive to me , I confess .
The notary solemnly took the pen , flourished it above his head , and said : “ Gentlemen , we are about to sign the contract. ” The baron was to sign first , then the representative of M. Cavalcanti , senior , then the baroness , afterwards the “ future couple , ” as they are styled in the abominable phraseology of legal documents .
What do you see ? ” “ A troop. ” “ Of how many persons ? ” “ Twenty men. ” “ What sort of men ? ” “ Sixteen pioneers , four soldiers. ” “ How far distant ? ” “ Five hundred paces. ” “ Good !
We were speaking of hanging. ” “ Ah , you see how it is , ” said Athos , becoming still paler , but yet attempting to laugh ; “ I was sure it was so—the hanging of people is my nightmare. ” “ Yes , yes , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
I heard it from M. Debray , who was present at the explanation. ” Valentine also knew the truth , but she did not answer .
Then he thought he was going to die .
I took the mule and the horse for what he owed us ; he assured me that they were two noble steeds. ” “ Well , madame , ” said Porthos , “ if he owed you more than five crowns , your horsedealer is a thief. ” “ There is no harm in trying to buy things cheap , Monsieur Porthos , ” said the procurator ’ s wife , seeking to excuse herself .
Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg : 1.E.1 .
Loose , half-drunk , imposing , the king ’ s Musketeers , or rather M. de Tréville ’ s , spread themselves about in the cabarets , in the public walks , and the public sports , shouting , twisting their mustaches , clanking their swords , and taking great pleasure in annoying the Guards of the cardinal whenever they could fall in with them ; then drawing in the open streets , as if it were the best of all possible sports ; sometimes killed , but sure in that case to be both wept and avenged ; often killing others , but then certain of not rotting in prison , M. de Tréville being there to claim them .
we have a precious fellow here ! ” “ Monsieur Grimaud ! ” said the duke , “ for your sake I beg of you , never come within the reach of my fist ! ” “ Hush !
And the more he thought , the more entire was his conviction , that the person who wore the mantle was no other than his former host and entertainer , “ Sinbad the Sailor. ” 20139m Under any other circumstances , Franz would have found it impossible to resist his extreme curiosity to know more of so singular a personage , and with that intent have sought to renew their short acquaintance ; but in the present instance , the confidential nature of the conversation he had overheard made him , with propriety , judge that his appearance at such a time would be anything but agreeable .
[ 7 ] Dr. Guillotin got the idea of his famous machine from witnessing an execution in Italy .
Besides , although the ballet was danced , the evening had scarcely begun .
“ Precisely what I was about to say , ” cried Danglars .
“ Ah , Haitians , —that is quite another thing !
He was dead .
You do not consecrate your days and nights wholly to the king ’ s service. ” D ’ Artagnan colored .
“ But , Monsieur Louvieres , are you aware that it is simply civil war you are proposing to me ? ” “ You have been preparing long enough , my lord , for it to be welcome to you now. ” “ Never mind , ” said the coadjutor ; “ you must be well aware that this requires reflection. ” “ And how many hours of reflection do you ask ? ” “ Twelve hours , sir ; is it too long ? ” “ It is now noon ; at midnight I will be at your house. ” “ If I should not be in , wait for me. ” “ Good !
Villefort fell back on his chair , passed his hand over his brow , moist with perspiration , and , for the third time , read the letter .
And remember my life depends on your answer .
I have only one thing to say to you .
Why , diamonds—and she is covered with them. ” “ To me she seems overloaded , ” observed Eugénie ; “ she would look far better if she wore fewer , and we should then be able to see her finely formed throat and wrists. ” “ See how the artist peeps out ! ” exclaimed Madame Danglars .
If you loved me , you would view all this otherwise .
D ’ Artagnan trembled ; and he likewise recollected that during the past half hour the poor woman had passed close to him , without doubt carried away by the same power that had caused her disappearance .
Besides , what a charming outlook it would have been to serve the cardinal !
“ We , too , ” said Athos , to the footman who had given him that answer , “ not only bring news from England , but have just come from there. ” “ What ?
Suddenly a voice was heard at the wicket .
Do you insist on this retractation so far as to kill me if I do not make it , although I have repeated more than once , and affirmed on my honor , that I was ignorant of the thing with which you charge me , and although I still declare that it is impossible for anyone but you to recognize the Count of Morcerf under the name of Fernand ? ” “ I maintain my original resolution. ” “ Very well , my dear sir ; then I consent to cut throats with you .
These horses evidently belonged to the three men , who were dressed as cavaliers .
“ I have one , but not one from Cardinal Mazarin. ” “ Enter , and ask for Monsieur Bernouin , ” said the porter , opening the door of the third room .
Polish up or make some one else polish my arms .
Five minutes afterwards the curtain falls , and the spectators depart .
It was therefore at the third door that those who solicited or were bidden to an audience underwent their formal interrogatory .
“ Pass your arms around my neck , and fear nothing. ” “ But I shall make you lose your balance , and we shall both be dashed to pieces. ” “ Don ’ t be afraid .
“ Ah , there you are , my good D ’ Arminges ; I have given you a great fright , have I not ?
Still , in spite of this reciprocal politeness , the countenances of the women betrayed a certain amount of uneasiness ; Louvieres became very pale and waited impatiently for the officer to explain himself .
“ But this is all I have left in the world , ” he said , “ out of an immense fortune .
‘ In whose name do you come ? ’ said he to him .
Vast was the crowd of visitors and inquiring friends who left their names at the residence of Madame de Villefort , with the design of renewing their visit at the right moment , of hearing from her lips all the interesting circumstances of this most romantic adventure .
it would be but an unsafe retreat .
Shall I speak to him ?
Besides—do you see that door , Athos ? ” “ Yes ; what then ? ” “ Well , you can go out by that door whenever you please ; for from this moment you are free as the air. ” “ I recognize you there , my brave D ’ Artagnan , ” replied Athos ; “ but you are no longer our masters .
At this crisis of the battle , the prince , who had been seconding De Chatillon in the second line , appeared in the midst of the fight ; his eagle eye made him known and his blows proclaimed the hero .
They proceeded to the Rue Saint Denis .
if so , depend on it , you will be happy. ” “ Me ? ” said the young girl , “ he never even glances at me ; on the contrary , if I accidentally cross his path , he appears rather to avoid me .
You had already passed half your life in coveting that which you might have honorably acquired ; and already you contemplated crime under the excuse of want , when God worked a miracle in your behalf , sending you , by my hands , a fortune—brilliant , indeed , for you , who had never possessed any .
The child went directly to him without kissing his mother .
God alone knows what country will see me die .
“ I see how it will be , ” said Athos : “ we shall get into some pretty quarrel or other , and we have no need of one just now .
You have received a regular letter of advice ? ” “ Yes , ” said Danglars , “ but I confess I didn ’ t quite comprehend its meaning. ” “ Indeed ? ” “ And for that reason I did myself the honor of calling upon you , in order to beg for an explanation. ” “ Go on , monsieur .
The two friends turned off into a side street to avoid meeting the prince , and so reached the Saint Denis gate .
After having failed in poetry , Monsieur de Beaufort tried drawing .
Without giving them any explanation of the alarm and inconvenience he had caused them , he told them that he had terminated the affair alone in which he had for a moment believed he should need their assistance .
Holloa , there , some bread ! ” he called .
“ Oh , mercy , mercy , monsieur ! ” “ What I require is , that justice be done .
It was thus he had succeeded in approaching several times the beautiful and proud Anne of Austria , and in making himself loved by dazzling her .
Chance is so capricious .
I have thought it no sin to bore through a wall , or destroy a staircase ; but I can not so easily persuade myself to pierce a heart or take away a life. ” A slight movement of surprise escaped Dantès .
I should not like to be Groslow , if he meets him. ” “ Well ? ” said Athos , to the man , in English .
The two favorite studies of my youth were botany and mineralogy , and subsequently , when I learned that the use of simples frequently explained the whole history of a people , and the entire life of individuals in the East , as flowers betoken and symbolize a love affair , I have regretted that I was not a man , that I might have been a Flamel , a Fontana , or a Cabanis. ” “ And the more , madame , ” said Monte Cristo , “ as the Orientals do not confine themselves , as did Mithridates , to make a cuirass of his poisons , but they also made them a dagger .
“ Well , now , ” she said , “ let us see what you would do to prove this love of which you speak. ” “ All that could be required of me .
Your wisdom and your affection must serve me as guides .
“ Permit me to assure your excellency , ” said Bertuccio , “ that the horses you speak of were not to be sold when I purchased yours. ” Monte Cristo shrugged his shoulders .
It was evident that at the sight of this document the minister would instantly release him .
“ You had never anything to complain of ? ” said the governor to the jailer who had charge of the abbé .
Yes , I heard this news , and knew it even before you could ; for three days ago I posted from Marseilles to Paris with all possible speed , half-desperate at the enforced delay. ” “ Three days ago ?
D ’ Artagnan had so much confidence in the word of his friend that he lowered his head , and entered the inn without reply .
Wait ; then , during the day , tell Rosa that when I leave the Opera I will sup with her as she wishes .
His thin face , deeply furrowed by care , and the bold outline of his strongly marked features , betokened a man more accustomed to exercise his mental faculties than his physical strength .
“ Then listen to me .
Fear , that relentless pursuer , clogged Dantès ’ efforts .
Their eyes measured the height and they exchanged conjectures .
If any harm come of it , it should fall on the guilty person ; and that , you know , is Fernand .
“ There , Duke , ” said he , “ you were right and I was wrong .
“ I have seen him once , ” replied Grimaud , a cloud darkening his countenance at the picture so suddenly summoned to the bar of recollection .
On leaving the convent he entered into the magistracy , became president on the place of his uncle , embraced the cardinal ’ s party , which did not prove want of sagacity , became chancellor , served his Eminence with zeal in his hatred against the queen-mother and his vengeance against Anne of Austria , stimulated the judges in the affair of Calais , encouraged the attempts of M. de Laffemas , chief gamekeeper of France ; then , at length , invested with the entire confidence of the cardinal—a confidence which he had so well earned—he received the singular commission for the execution of which he presented himself in the queen ’ s apartments .
Where is Béthune , Athos ? ” “ Why , upon the frontiers of Artois and of Flanders .
At this moment a monstrous battering was heard .
The carriage , which had been stopped for a minute , resumed its way , passed through the crowd , threaded the Rue St. Honoré , turned into the Rue des Bons Enfants , and stopped before a low door .
And , wonderful to see , in front of the tower of Saint-Jean , was a ship bearing on her stern these words , printed in white letters , “ The _Pharaon_ , Morrel & Son , of Marseilles. ” She was the exact duplicate of the other _Pharaon_ , and loaded , as that had been , with cochineal and indigo .
During the whole of this nocturnal ride , during the whole time that he was endeavoring to understand the various characters of Comminges , Guitant and Villequier , Mazarin was , in truth , studying more especially one man .
Athos was the last to enter .
The _moccoletto_ is kindled by approaching it to a light .
If the window had been open or even ajar , I should think nothing of it ; but , no—all was hermetically sealed .
I only wait till you give them. ” “ You will go to Buckingham in my behalf , and you will tell him I am acquainted with all the preparations he has made ; but that they give me no uneasiness , since at the first step he takes I will ruin the queen. ” “ Will he believe that your Eminence is in a position to accomplish the threat thus made ? ” “ Yes ; for I have the proofs. ” “ I must be able to present these proofs for his appreciation. ” “ Without doubt .
M. d ’ Artagnan , my dear M. d ’ Artagnan , ” he called out in a coaxing voice , “ will you answer for everything ? ” “ I will answer for nothing .
You will not be pitiless ! ” cried Mordaunt .
I knew that from the mixture of Greek words .
The Count of San-Felice pointed out Teresa , who was hanging on Luigi ’ s arm in a group of peasants .
In which we hear Tidings of Aramis .
The thing was discussed for a long time , but finally decided in his favor .
She becomes at once a queen and a wife , and it is impossible to thank and love her sufficiently .
He looked for his doublet of the year 1648 and as he had orderly habits , he found it hanging on its nail .
He never gave advice but when it was asked , and even then he required to be asked twice .
I think these fellows will never come. ” “ If you are in haste , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , with the same simplicity with which a moment before he had proposed to him to put off the duel for three days , “ and if it be your will to dispatch me at once , do not inconvenience yourself , I pray you. ” “ There is another word which pleases me , ” cried Athos , with a gracious nod to D ’ Artagnan .
“ That is lucky , ” said Blaisois .
Fie ! ’ ” “ D ’ Artagnan , D ’ Artagnan , ” cried Aramis , “ you are killing me ! ” “ Well , here it is at last ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , as he drew the letter from his pocket .
He was to wait at the gate ; if by chance the Musketeers should appear , the carriage was to set off as fast as possible , pass around the convent , and go and wait for Milady at a little village which was situated at the other side of the wood .
Morrel was dreaming , and Monte Cristo was looking at the dreamer .
“ A great favor !
I entreat of you not to go near him—at least tonight ; and if tomorrow your curiosity still continues as great , pursue your researches if you will ; but tonight you neither can nor shall .
The money is nothing ; that letter was everything .
Their number was formidable , now that he had begun to fear , and yet these names , powerful though they were , had often caused him to smile with the same kind of satisfaction experienced by a traveller who from the summit of a mountain beholds at his feet the craggy eminences , the almost impassable paths , and the fearful chasms , through which he has so perilously climbed .
THE AUDIENCE M. de Tréville was at the moment in rather ill-humor , nevertheless he saluted the young man politely , who bowed to the very ground ; and he smiled on receiving D ’ Artagnan ’ s response , the Béarnese accent of which recalled to him at the same time his youth and his country—a double remembrance which makes a man smile at all ages ; but stepping toward the antechamber and making a sign to D ’ Artagnan with his hand , as if to ask his permission to finish with others before he began with him , he called three times , with a louder voice at each time , so that he ran through the intervening tones between the imperative accent and the angry accent .
Yes , Albert , from whatever source the blow may have proceeded—it may be from an enemy , but that enemy is only the agent of Providence. ” Albert held his head between his hands ; he raised his face , red with shame and bathed in tears , and seizing Beauchamp ’ s arm : “ My friend , ” said he , “ my life is ended .
You can understand , dear friend , with what hope I was inspired by that last letter .
He was accompanied by two of the yacht ’ s crew .
Mme .
If you reveal it to anyone in the world , I shall be lost , and perhaps yourself likewise. ” “ Oh , my God ! ” “ Listen .
It appeared as if the ceiling sank upon my head and crushed me with its weight .
He pressed his burning lips to the cheeks , but they were icy cold and pale ; he felt the stiffened limbs ; he pressed his hand upon the heart , but it no longer beat , —the child was dead .
She was fearful of exciting any remark , and believed firmly in her daughter ’ s innocence and fidelity to the paternal roof .
Halloo , Grimaud ! ” Grimaud appeared .
It was you who were behind my bed-curtains that night the Parisians wished to see me asleep. ” “ And if the king permits me , ” returned the Gascon , “ I shall be near him always when there is danger to be encountered. ” “ Sir , ” said Mazarin to Porthos , “ what would you do if the crowd fell upon us ? ” “ Kill as many as I could , my lord. ” “ Hem !
This is the fourth which you have let fall and I have picked up ; for in three years , madame , I have only seen you four times—the first , which I have described to you ; the second , at the mansion of Madame de Chevreuse ; the third , in the gardens of Amiens. ” “ Duke , ” said the queen , blushing , “ never speak of that evening. ” “ Oh , let us speak of it ; on the contrary , let us speak of it !
“ Are you _sure_ that the _other_ is dead ? ” “ _The other ? _ ” said Athos , in so stifled a voice that D ’ Artagnan scarcely heard him .
At length , one by one , all the noises in the neighborhood ceased .
it is God Himself who sent us here. ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ let us break the door in and fall upon him. ” “ No , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ no noise .
At the same moment a fearful “ hurrah ! ” rent the air and thirty blades glittered about their heads .
See him , and hear what he says. ” “ M .
It was about half-past nine .
And were it not for the windows at the Palazzo Rospoli , by way of recompense for the loss of our beautiful scheme , I don ’ t know but what I should have held on by my original plan .
“ Now , ” said the count , “ let us follow him. ” Franz and the count in their turn then advanced along the same path , which , at the distance of a hundred paces , led them over a declivity to the bottom of a small valley .
Oh , oh ! ” said M. de Tréville .
Dantès did not comprehend the jest , but his hair stood erect on his head .
I have not , and I can not make three copies of that letter , because it is sealed .
But this sufficed for Jacopo , who instinctively felt that Edmond had a right to superiority of position—a superiority which Edmond had concealed from all others .
Franz followed Albert with his eyes , and saw him mount the first step .
Then turning to the baroness : “ May I ask how Mademoiselle Danglars is ? ” said he .
You accuse me of fear ; I have not so much as you have , since I do not fly as you do .
“ A cup of chocolate. ” “ I did not ask for it .
“ Till we meet again , then , dear traitor ! ” “ Till we meet again , my forgetful charmer ! ” “ Tomorrow , my angel ! ” “ Tomorrow , flame of my life ! ” Chapter XXX .
“ And that diamond , ” cried Caderousse , almost breathless with eager admiration , “ you say , is worth fifty thousand francs ? ” “ It is , without the setting , which is also valuable , ” replied the abbé , as he closed the box , and returned it to his pocket , while its brilliant hues seemed still to dance before the eyes of the fascinated innkeeper .
You are surprised at what you see here ? ” “ Extremely. ” “ But above all things , I am a marvel to you ? ” “ I confess it. ” “ I am still young , am I not ?
Gentlemen , good morning. ” As he left the room , Debray called out loudly , “ My carriage. ” “ Bravo , ” said Beauchamp to Albert ; “ I shall not go to the Chamber , but I have something better to offer my readers than a speech of M. Danglars. ” “ For heaven ’ s sake , Beauchamp , ” returned Morcerf , “ do not deprive me of the merit of introducing him everywhere .
But , though he held the cardinal ’ s promises as of little worth , he affected to be completely satisfied , for he was unwilling to discourage Porthos .
de Motteville will not be astonished at this reply .
“ Laporte , ” said the duke , in a dying voice , “ Laporte , do you come from her ? ” “ Yes , monseigneur , ” replied the faithful cloak bearer of Anne of Austria , “ but too late , perhaps. ” “ Silence , Laporte , you may be overheard .
Porthos and I will stay here. ” The friends obeyed .
D ’ Artagnan profited by the circumstance to speak to M. de Tréville of the letter with the great red seal and the cardinal ’ s arms .
Aramis assumed that perilous charge .
“ Here , ” he said , “ here is a draft at sight. ” “ And here is your fowl. ” Danglars sighed while he carved the fowl ; it appeared very thin for the price it had cost .
What ! ” he continued , “ can I have been following a false path ? —can the end which I proposed be a mistaken end ? —can one hour have sufficed to prove to an architect that the work upon which he founded all his hopes was an impossible , if not a sacrilegious , undertaking ?
“ As a friend , and only as a friend , at this moment .
Danglars immediately recognized him as the man who had called out in such a furious manner , “ Put in your head ! ” But this was not the time for recrimination , so he assumed his most agreeable manner and said with a gracious smile : “ Excuse me , sir , but are they not going to give me any dinner ? ” “ Does your excellency happen to be hungry ? ” “ Happen to be hungry , —that ’ s pretty good , when I haven ’ t eaten for twenty-four hours ! ” muttered Danglars .
But you must let me make my observations , or the Frenchman will transact his business without my knowing the sum. ” Peppino nodded , and taking a rosary from his pocket began to mutter a few prayers while the clerk disappeared through the same door by which Danglars and the attendant had gone out .
All this was answered by an expression of D ’ Artagnan ’ s .
But by some strange play of emotion , in proportion as the proofs that Faria , had not been deceived became stronger , so did his heart give way , and a feeling of discouragement stole over him .
After mass the young monarch drove to the Parliament House , where , upon the throne , he hastily confirmed not only such edicts as he had already passed , but issued new ones , each one , according to Cardinal de Retz , more ruinous than the others—a proceeding which drew forth a strong remonstrance from the chief president , Molé—whilst President Blancmesnil and Councillor Broussel raised their voices in indignation against fresh taxes .
One chamber alone had been respected by the magnificent Bertuccio .
But stop !
He cast himself on his knees , seized the hand , and touched it respectfully with his lips .
with patience one must succeed .
“ That the day after tomorrow I shall have to draw upon you for about four thousand francs ; but the count , expecting my bachelor ’ s revenue could not suffice for the coming month ’ s outlay , has offered me a draft for twenty thousand francs .
“ My friend , ” said Beauchamp , in the most affectionate tone , “ I should gladly make an apology ; but , alas ! —— ” “ But what ? ” “ The paragraph was correct , my friend. ” “ What ?
But he was no longer there , having withdrawn on the previous evening to La Bassee , misled by false intelligence of the enemy ’ s movements .
Let me fight like a woman , then ; my strength is in my weakness. ” Then , as if to render an account to herself of the changes she could place upon her countenance , so mobile and so expressive , she made it take all expressions from that of passionate anger , which convulsed her features , to that of the most sweet , most affectionate , and most seducing smile .
Render to him , then , the last service he can by any possibility ask of you , and your work will be all the more meritorious. ” The monk made no reply , but silently wended his way to the room where the two valets had deposited the dying man on a bed .
Mademoiselle Danglars ’ charms were heightened in the opinion of the young men , and for the moment seemed to outvie the sun in splendor .
A VISION At four o ’ clock the four friends were all assembled with Athos .
My safety is now a mere question of speed. ” At this moment he saw a cab at the top of the Faubourg Poissonnière .
They advanced fifty paces farther , and then stopped to open a door , then went forward again .
If I am caught , I risk nothing but being taken back again to prison .
When you wish to obtain some concession from a man ’ s self-love , you must avoid even the appearance of wishing to wound it. ” “ I believe you are right. ” “ I am glad of it. ” “ Then I will go alone. ” “ Go ; but you would do better still by not going at all. ” “ That is impossible. ” “ Do so , then ; it will be a wiser plan than the first which you proposed. ” “ But if , in spite of all my precautions , I am at last obliged to fight , will you not be my second ? ” “ My dear viscount , ” said Monte Cristo gravely , “ you must have seen before today that at all times and in all places I have been at your disposal , but the service which you have just demanded of me is one which it is out of my power to render you. ” “ Why ? ” “ Perhaps you may know at some future period , and in the mean time I request you to excuse my declining to put you in possession of my reasons. ” “ Well , I will have Franz and Château-Renaud ; they will be the very men for it. ” “ Do so , then. ” “ But if I do fight , you will surely not object to giving me a lesson or two in shooting and fencing ? ” “ That , too , is impossible. ” “ What a singular being you are ! —you will not interfere in anything. ” “ You are right—that is the principle on which I wish to act. ” “ We will say no more about it , then .
Dantès had not eaten since the preceding evening , but he had not thought of hunger , nor did he think of it now .
“ Really ! ” “ I might even say that we have some reason to praise him. ” “ Impossible ! ” “ Yes , really ; it is owing to him that we are free. ” “ Owing to him ? ” “ Yes , he had us conducted into the orangery by Monsieur Bernouin , his valet-de-chambre , and from there we followed him to visit the Comte de la Fere .
A gentleman turned around .
A woman could go up a ladder like that. ” Aramis ’ s searching look seemed to seek his friend ’ s thought even at the bottom of his heart , but D ’ Artagnan sustained the inquisition with an air of admirable simplicity .
D ’ Artagnan was profuse in gallant speeches and protestations of devotion .
This is not the Hôtel des Princes. ” “ Come , you are growing discontented , you are no longer happy ; you , who only wish to live like a retired baker. ” Caderousse sighed .
Villefort also rang ; his new valet brought him the papers , and with them a cup of chocolate .
I will perpetuate the crime and punishment by making a frightful example .
A man has carried off your mistress , a man has seduced your wife , a man has dishonored your daughter ; he has rendered the whole life of one who had the right to expect from Heaven that portion of happiness God has promised to everyone of his creatures , an existence of misery and infamy ; and you think you are avenged because you send a ball through the head , or pass a sword through the breast , of that man who has planted madness in your brain , and despair in your heart .
I am on my own ground , and have an undoubted right to place a ladder against the wall , and to look over when I please , without having any apprehensions of being taken off by the police as a suspicious character .
There is no question , you understand , provided we secure our own interests , of securing those of the Frondeurs ; who , besides , don ’ t understand political matters as we old soldiers do. ” “ Never fear , dear friend , ” said Porthos .
You have only to wait here till I release you. ” D ’ Artagnan was known to this valet-de-chambre , who was no other than Bernouin , and he had during the last six or eight months introduced the Gascon a dozen times to the cardinal .
“ _Pardieu ! _ ” “ And what do they say of it in the world ? ” “ In which world ?
“ Although , in justice , the people who arrest and imprison you , ought , at least , to feed you. ” “ That is not the custom , excellency , ” said Peppino .
Pardon me , then , a fault which is perhaps great , but which certainly was involuntary. ” Milady was so beautiful at this moment , the religious ecstasy in which she appeared to be plunged gave such an expression to her countenance , that Felton was so dazzled that he fancied he beheld the angel whom he had only just before heard .
We learn this from the memoirs of a man who was concerned in some few of these defeats and in many of these victories .
“ There is , ” said he , at the end of his meditations , “ a clever maxim , which bears upon what I was saying to you some little while ago , and that is , that unless wicked ideas take root in a naturally depraved mind , human nature , in a right and wholesome state , revolts at crime .
“ This is not the way that I wished to avenge myself , ” said Milady , replacing the glass upon the table , with an infernal smile , “ but , my faith !
Perhaps if I employed my strength against women I might perchance find them weaker than myself , and consequently conquer them ; but it is with men that I struggle , and I am but a woman to them .
“ No ; and yet they refused to buy it. ” “ Why ? ” said Château-Renaud .
He was the friend of the king , who honored highly , as everyone knows , the memory of his father , Henry IV .
We shall be alone , and can make up our accounts. ” “ In good time .
On the staircase he met the pretty _soubrette_ , who brushed gently against him as she passed , and then , blushing to the eyes , asked his pardon for having touched him in a voice so sweet that the pardon was granted instantly .
I invented a preparation that makes linen as smooth and as easy to write on as parchment. ” “ You are , then , a chemist ? ” “ Somewhat ; I know Lavoisier , and was the intimate friend of Cabanis. ” “ But for such a work you must have needed books—had you any ? ” “ I had nearly five thousand volumes in my library at Rome ; but after reading them over many times , I found out that with one hundred and fifty well-chosen books a man possesses , if not a complete summary of all human knowledge , at least all that a man need really know .
“ Today the preliminaries , tomorrow or next day the ceremony !
“ Really ?
there ’ s something promising , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
You will , one or other of you , perhaps both , return it to me at Paris .
But Aramis bent his head the instant he saw the duke ’ s finger press the trigger and the ball passed without touching him .
MY DEAR ATHOS , I wish , as your health absolutely requires it , that you should rest for a fortnight .
look at M. Andrea Cavalcanti , the young man in a black coat , looking at Murillo ’ s ‘ Madonna ’ ; now he is turning. ” This time Bertuccio would have uttered an exclamation , had not a look from Monte Cristo silenced him .
However , when Morrel went down to his dinner , he appeared very calm .
“ Pooh ! ” said Porthos , “ it is always that .
to dispute over their evening game of chess upon the merits of their servants .
The day passed away in utter silence—night came without recurrence of the noise .
Ah , I can understand how the sight of him struck you , ” replied Lord de Winter .
what do you say ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
Do you say that M. Noirtier disinherits Mademoiselle de Villefort because she is going to marry M. le Baron Franz d ’ Épinay ? ” “ Yes , sir , that is the reason , ” said Villefort , shrugging his shoulders .
Here is a man who had resigned himself to his fate , who was going to the scaffold to die—like a coward , it is true , but he was about to die without resistance .
Now I have these proofs , Albert , and I am in your confidence , no human power can force me to a duel which your own conscience would reproach you with as criminal , but I come to offer you what you can no longer demand of me .
“ That ’ s all right , my dear Aramis , take care of yourself , ” said he ; “ I will go alone in search of Athos. ” “ You are a man of brass , ” replied Aramis .
In his time they armed gentlemen , not disarmed them .
“ Yours ! ” cried she , throwing back her veil , — “ yours , which I alone , perhaps , have not forgotten .
Were you not already rich enough—you who possess nearly a million ?
“ Certainly , ” said Andrea , “ I shall not overtake my friend , but I shall kill your horse , therefore I had better stop .
Valentine opened her eyes .
More than fifty private carriages followed the twenty mourning-coaches , and behind them more than five hundred persons joined in the procession on foot .
You promised to bestow on me the friendly affection of a brother .
“ It is done , gentlemen , ” said Athos .
The sportsman instantly changed his direction , and ran quickly towards them .
Athos talked of the discretion of Grimaud , who never spoke a word but when his master unlocked his mouth .
20135m From the imperfect means Franz had of judging , he could only come to one conclusion , —that the person whom he was thus watching certainly belonged to no inferior station of life .
At the Royal Arms of England you will find a young gentleman named Mordaunt. ” “ Yes , my lord ; and what am I to do with this young gentleman ? ” “ Follow wherever he leads you. ” D ’ Artagnan looked at the cardinal with a stupefied air .
“ Sir , ” said the notary , “ how do you intend disposing of your fortune in case Mademoiselle de Villefort still determines on marrying M. Franz ? ” The old man gave no answer .
It may still be possible to overtake the prisoner .
Andrea , as we can see , was surrounded by misfortune .
“ For me ? ” cried the boy , his eyes sparkling with joy , “ if I can find out where Bazin is going ?
Coquenard recognized her present , and could not at first comprehend this restitution ; but the visit of Porthos soon enlightened her .
“ And you fancy he will not put his maxim into execution , now that he has got hold of the king ? ” “ On the contrary , I am certain he will do so .
She had been there some moments , and had heard the last words of the visitor .
Meantime , D ’ Artagnan , who is full of invention , would find some way to save the king .
He wished to lodge the two travelers each in a charming chamber ; but unfortunately these charming chambers were at the opposite extremities of the hôtel .
It was the man he called his phantom ; it was his stranger of Meung , of the Rue des Fossoyeurs and of Arras .
“ Run !
Shall I call on him as I pass ? ” “ D ’ Avrigny , ” said Villefort , “ be so kind , I beseech you , as to accompany this gentleman .
Those who have once beheld such a spectacle know that there is nothing more solemn , more striking , than the raging sea , rolling , with its deafening roar , its dark billows beneath the pale light of a wintry moon .
At the same instant the gun was fired , and he heard the whistling of a ball pass over his head .
The Insult Chapter 89 .
“ What is it ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , with that jeering manner which our readers have so often observed in him since they made his acquaintance .
There are a few things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement .
to my misfortune , to my eternal misfortune ! ” and Milady twisted her arms as if in a paroxysm of grief .
All I have is at his service. ” The priest gazed on the person addressing him with a long and searching gaze—there even seemed a disposition on his part to court a similar scrutiny on the part of the innkeeper ; then , observing in the countenance of the latter no other expression than extreme surprise at his own want of attention to an inquiry so courteously worded , he deemed it as well to terminate this dumb show , and therefore said , speaking with a strong Italian accent , “ You are , I presume , M. Caderousse ? ” “ Yes , sir , ” answered the host , even more surprised at the question than he had been by the silence which had preceded it ; “ I am Gaspard Caderousse , at your service. ” “ Gaspard Caderousse , ” rejoined the priest .
“ One of the officers went to the place I directed .
Bonacieux .
I speak of that adventure in behalf of the queen , of the ornaments , of the journey you made with three of your friends. ” “ Aha ! ” thought the Gascon ; “ is this a snare or not ?
Is it really your intention to make me captain of the _Pharaon_ ? ” “ If I were sole owner we ’ d shake hands on it now , my dear Dantès , and call it settled ; but I have a partner , and you know the Italian proverb—_Chi ha compagno ha padrone_— ‘ He who has a partner has a master. ’ But the thing is at least half done , as you have one out of two votes .
Felton surveyed her for an instant with his usual impassiveness ; then , seeing that the crisis threatened to be prolonged , he went out .
They found him in the large armchair , which served him for a bed , enjoying a calm , nay , almost a smiling sleep .
The next day , Monday , was the first sitting of the assizes .
Monsieur de Beaufort had said that he had forty ways of getting out of prison .
Cavalcanti has a fine tenor voice , ” said he , “ and Mademoiselle Eugénie a splendid soprano , and then she plays the piano like Thalberg .
“ Farewell , monseigneur ; should I not receive a reply in the space of fifteen days , I shall presume my letter will have miscarried .
Every one stood up .
Albert turned away his head with a sigh , and went to his own apartments .
At nine in the morning he reached Nanteuil and stopped for breakfast .
I paused , but I had already drunk half a glass .
I shall tell him , therefore , and in doing so I shall confer a personal favor on him , how he is mistaken in regard to me .
Chapter XXXIII .
The Colosseum Franz had so managed his route , that during the ride to the Colosseum they passed not a single ancient ruin , so that no preliminary impression interfered to mitigate the colossal proportions of the gigantic building they came to admire .
Noirtier , Rue Coq-Héron , No .
Take him and teach him to be as brave and loyal as you are yourself. ” “ Then , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , “ though I shall not have you , Athos , at all events I shall have that dear fair-haired head by me ; and though he ’ s but a boy , yet , since your soul lives again in him , dear Athos , I shall always fancy that you are near me , sustaining and encouraging me. ” The four friends embraced with tears in their eyes .
“ I will break every bone in your body ! ” cried the duke .
“ Tomorrow morning , ” answered the innkeeper .
“ How can I understand ?
She will take me for one of those wretches with whom the palace swarms and who are placed about her as spies !
You go to Madame d ’ Aguillon ’ s , and you pay your court to her ; you go to Madame de Bois-Tracy ’ s , the cousin of Madame de Chevreuse , and you pass for being far advanced in the good graces of that lady .
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Three Musketeers This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .
“ No , my prince , ” replied Mazarin , “ the third bed is intended for your highness. ” “ But your eminence ? ” replied the prince .
The executioner made a sign , and his two assistants leaped from the scaffold and seized him .
’ tis easy to say so , but that requires money , and I haven ’ t any. ” “ Ah ! ” replied Mazarin , “ so you have no money ? ” “ None , my lord. ” “ But the diamond I gave you yesterday ? ” “ I wish to keep it in remembrance of your eminence. ” Mazarin sighed .
“ Stay a moment , your excellency , ” said Peppino , rising ; “ you still owe me something. ” “ I said they would skin me , ” thought Danglars ; but resolving to resist the extortion , he said , “ Come , how much do I owe you for this fowl ? ” “ Your excellency has given me a louis on account. ” “ A louis on account for a fowl ? ” “ Certainly ; and your excellency now owes me 4,999 louis. ” Danglars opened his enormous eyes on hearing this gigantic joke .
“ You promised to bring a knife , and to leave it with me after our interview. ” “ Say no more of that , madame , ” said Felton .
It is not very difficult to say. ” “ Tell us , then , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ We are going to reach the nearest seaport , unite our little resources , hire a vessel and return to France .
The following morning Jacopo set sail for Marseilles , with directions from Dantès to join him at the Island of Monte Cristo .
My dear Franz , M. Maximilian Morrel , an excellent friend I have acquired in your absence , and whose name you will hear me mention every time I make any allusion to affection , wit , or amiability. ” Morrel hesitated for a moment ; he feared it would be hypocritical to accost in a friendly manner the man whom he was tacitly opposing , but his oath and the gravity of the circumstances recurred to his memory ; he struggled to conceal his emotion and bowed to Franz .
But what struck everybody was his extreme resemblance to the portrait Debray had drawn .
“ Never , sir , ” replied the jailer , “ never ; on the contrary , he sometimes amused me very much by telling me stories .
“ You see , ” said Dantès , quitting the helm , “ I shall be of some use to you , at least during the voyage .
The latter took in the whole scene at a glance .
Yes , the Marechal de Grammont is right ; this will change the aspect of French affairs , but I much fear it will do nothing for English , even if it does not harm them .
We say _almost_ , for the idea that a young , handsome , kind , and witty woman is at the same time rich takes nothing from the beginning of love , but on the contrary strengthens it .
The baron walked triumphantly through the crowd , who for the sake of gain styled him “ your excellency. ” As Danglars had hitherto contented himself with being called a baron , he felt rather flattered at the title of excellency , and distributed a dozen silver coins among the beggars , who were ready , for twelve more , to call him “ your highness. ” “ Which road ? ” asked the postilion in Italian .
“ They do not want my papers , ” said Monte Cristo , “ they want to kill me ; they are no robbers , but assassins .
“ At this moment the expiring embers threw up a fresh flame from the kindling of a piece of wood that lay near , and a bright light flashed over the room .
Cloud .
Steps sounded in the chamber , and drew near .
“ Ah ! ” cried Porthos ; “ would I were but a baron ! ” “ Well , my friend , I am come to give you this very title which you wish for so much. ” Porthos gave a start that shook the room ; two or three bottles fell and were broken .
There was but one tavern , the Post .
Beauchamp repeated the name to himself , as though he could scarcely believe that he had heard aright , and then gave orders for him to be admitted .
He then left for Madrid , and was no more heard of .
But the count , disregarding his cry , continued to wring the bandit ’ s wrist , until , his arm being dislocated , he fell first on his knees , then flat on the floor .
_Where your life was spared ! _ For shame !
You are somewhat _blasé_ I know , and family scenes have not much effect on Sinbad the Sailor , who has seen so many others .
First she fancied she saw her stepmother threatening her , then Morrel stretched his arms towards her ; sometimes mere strangers , like the Count of Monte Cristo came to visit her ; even the very furniture , in these moments of delirium , seemed to move , and this state lasted till about three o ’ clock in the morning , when a deep , heavy slumber overcame the young girl , from which she did not awake till daylight .
Why , that ’ s as long as the Almighty took to make the world !
“ Ah , my yellow horse , ” cried he .
As soon as the child perceived the queen he escaped from Laporte and ran to meet her .
As soon as the escort arrived in a city , when they had conducted the king to his quarters the four friends either retired to their own or to some secluded cabaret , where they neither drank nor played ; they only conversed in a low voice , looking around attentively to see that no one overheard them .
destiny ! ” murmured the abbé .
That was the reason why I left my Chateau du Vallon near Corbeil , and came to my estate , Bracieux .
The major recovered his self-possession .
At the footman ’ s announcement she raised herself a little and peeped out , with some curiosity .
Besides , I am a Picard. ” “ Then it is understood , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ you would rather be killed than desert your post ? ” “ Yes , monsieur ; and there is nothing I would not do to prove to Monsieur that I am attached to him. ” “ Good ! ” said D ’ Artagnan to himself .
Porthos opened his mouth to reply ; D ’ Artagnan made him a sign , and his mouth , remaining silent , gradually closed .
Chapter LXVI .
“ Yes there are , and most hideous , or rather most admirable ones , for I found them ugly enough to frighten me. ” “ Come , my dear Albert , ” said Debray , “ confess that your cook is behindhand , that the oysters have not arrived from Ostend or Marennes , and that , like Madame de Maintenon , you are going to replace the dish by a story .
Gaetano , who had proposed the expedition , had taken all the responsibility on himself ; the four sailors fixed their eyes on him , while they got out their oars and held themselves in readiness to row away , which , thanks to the darkness , would not be difficult .
Be this evening about ten o ’ clock at St .
The other bowed respectfully , and offered his arm to assist the count in descending .
“ Simpleton ! ” exclaimed Mousqueton ; “ suppose any one came into the room. ” “ Ah , true , ” cried Blaisois , with evident admiration ; “ but it will be dark in the cellar. ” “ Grimaud always sees , dark or light , night as well as day , ” answered Mousqueton .
Besides , you owe me some thanks .
Raoul remained silent , for he was not prepared for the dignity of the bel esprit .
“ This cursed rolling ! ” said Blaisois .
Danglars lost five hundred thousand francs ; but he rid himself of all his Spanish shares .
“ That is what I call an elegant mode of attack , ” said Albert , “ You were quite correct in what you said , Signor Pastrini .
“ Oh , if he knows the contents of this ! ” murmured he , “ and that Noirtier is the father of Villefort , I am lost ! ” And he fixed his eyes upon Edmond as if he would have penetrated his thoughts .
“ But how can Lord de Winter , my protector , my father , ” asked Felton , “ possibly be mixed up with all this ? ” “ Listen , Felton , ” resumed Milady , “ for by the side of base and contemptible men there are often found great and generous natures .
The jailer , though rough and hardened by the constant sight of so much suffering , was yet a man .
At this signal four soldiers of the Seraskier Kourchid suddenly appeared , and Selim fell , pierced by five blows .
It was the queen !
But then he may have stopped at Saint Germain. ” “ I don ’ t think so ; we appointed to meet at La Chevrette. ” “ I was there this very day. ” “ And had the pretty Madeleine no news ? ” asked Aramis , smiling .
“ Yes , ” said Cromwell ; “ you have done , since I knew you , not only your duty , but more than your duty ; you have been a faithful friend , a cautious negotiator , a brave soldier. ” “ Do you remember , sir it was my idea , the Scotch treaty , for giving up the king ? ” “ Yes , the idea was yours .
The notary looked at Villefort .
“ Come ! ” exclaimed Aramis .
Aramis was the next to come in and to discover Athos almost insensible .
At length he raised his head , fixed his eagle look upon that loyal , open , and intelligent countenance , read upon that face , furrowed with tears , all the sufferings its possessor had endured in the course of a month , and reflected for the third or fourth time how much there was in that youth of twenty-one years before him , and what resources his activity , his courage , and his shrewdness might offer to a good master .
I send them , but like Pilate—washing my hands. ” “ And what does Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly say to you for robbing her of her pupil ? ” “ Oh , well , I don ’ t know ; but I understand that she is going to Italy .
Porthos ventured to put his head between the railings , to try if his glance could penetrate the gloom .
This quantity , which is perfectly safe to administer to the paralyzed frame of M. Noirtier , which has become gradually accustomed to it , would be sufficient to kill another person. ” “ My dear doctor , there is no communication between M. Noirtier ’ s apartment and that of Madame de Saint-Méran , and Barrois never entered my mother-in-law ’ s room .
Then , wishing to make the best use of his time while he had the means of labor , he continued to work without ceasing .
What would the abbé please to have ?
“ May I be permitted to inform my wife ? ” said he .
“ Could you ever have credited such a thing , my dear Danglars ? ” asked M. Morrel , as , on his return to the port for the purpose of gleaning fresh tidings of Dantès , from M. de Villefort , the assistant procureur , he overtook his supercargo and Caderousse .
There were , besides , other particulars he was desirous of ascertaining , and those were of a nature he alone could investigate in a manner satisfactory to himself .
“ 600,000—700,000—800,000—900,000 ? ” Noirtier stopped him at the last-named sum .
The committee was made up of Liberals , several of whom came forward to shake hands with him. ” Albert felt his heart bursting at these particulars , but gratitude mingled with his sorrow : he would gladly have embraced those who had given his father this proof of esteem at a moment when his honor was so powerfully attacked .
I shall , therefore , not visit either of these telegraphs , but one in the open country where I shall find a good-natured simpleton , who knows no more than the machine he is employed to work. ” “ You are a singular man , ” said Villefort .
That , I think , is as much as I shall want. ” “ But your companions ? ” “ I don ’ t think they can be in need of any .
“ And now , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” he said , “ prepare to set off for Saint Germain and take a letter from me to the queen. ” Chapter LXXXVIII .
The crowd moved to and fro in the rooms like an ebb and flow of turquoises , rubies , emeralds , opals , and diamonds .
“ They are mistaken ; bring him here at eight o ’ clock , sir , and may Heaven bless you as I bless you ! ” “ And now ’ tis your turn , ” said the coadjutor , turning to the last that remained ; “ have you anything as good to offer me as the two gentlemen who have left us ? ” “ Better , my lord. ” “ Diable !
“ For my part , ” observed Aramis , “ I can not say the same as you do , Porthos .
“ You played very willingly with us without knowing our names , ” said Athos , “ by the same token that you won our horses. ” “ That is true , but we then only risked our pistoles ; this time we risk our blood .
Dost know where Porthos is ? ” “ No—not at all. ” “ And Aramis ? ” “ Not in the least. ” “ The devil !
The bell summoned him to his seat , and he entered the orchestra with Château-Renaud and Beauchamp .
He was of pale complexion , with clear blue eyes , rather deeply set ; his mouth , fine and well cut , remained motionless in its correct lines ; his chin , strongly marked , denoted that strength of will which in the ordinary Britannic type denotes mostly nothing but obstinacy ; a brow a little receding , as is proper for poets , enthusiasts , and soldiers , was scarcely shaded by short thin hair which , like the beard which covered the lower part of his face , was of a beautiful deep chestnut color .
The duke , however , was not dead .
“ Have you forgotten anything ? ” said Aramis .
At last they came in sight of a small wood , and spurring their horses afresh , rode in its direction .
The patrol passed .
The Presentation When Albert found himself alone with Monte Cristo , “ My dear count , ” said he , “ allow me to commence my services as _cicerone_ by showing you a specimen of a bachelor ’ s apartment .
“ Where must we place him ? ” demanded the chief .
D ’ Artagnan , I am ready to follow you. ” “ And I also , ” said Porthos .
The coadjutor has given me dispensations from fasting on the jours maigres , on account of my health ; then I have engaged as my cook the cook who lived with Lafollone—you know the man I mean ? —the friend of the cardinal , and the famous epicure whose grace after dinner used to be , ‘ Good Lord , do me the favor to cause me to digest what I have eaten. ’ ” “ Nevertheless he died of indigestion , in spite of his grace , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Planchet , ” said D ’ Artagnan , cocking his pistols , “ I will take charge of the one at the top ; you look to the one below .
It is understood , of course , that when we say “ the queen , ” Mazarin is meant .
“ You pity me , little one ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
A hundred writers since Socrates , Seneca , St. Augustine , and Gall , have made , in verse and prose , the comparison you have made , and yet I can well understand that a father ’ s sufferings may effect great changes in the mind of a son .
But Villefort , raising his head , bowed down by grief , looked up at her with so sad a smile that her complaints died upon her lips .
do not bring on me the horrors of remorse !
Baptiste , give me yesterday ’ s paper , ” cried Beauchamp .
“ Ah , you are awake , madame , ” he said ; “ then I have nothing more to do here .
Come , come , do not strip the latter of his just rights to bestow them on the Corsican , who , to my mind , has usurped quite enough. ” 0085m “ Nay , madame ; I would place each of these heroes on his right pedestal—that of Robespierre on his scaffold in the Place Louis Quinze ; that of Napoleon on the column of the Place Vendôme .
Andrea drove past the last house in the village without saying a word to his companion , who smiled complacently , as though well-pleased to find himself travelling in so comfortable a vehicle .
The people who exhaust my fortune are those who draw out 700,000 francs in the course of an hour. ” “ I do not understand you , sir , ” said the baroness , trying to disguise the agitation of her voice and the flush of her face .
Go , Monsieur Duke , and return often .
Fly , fly ! ” “ Yes , yes , let us fly ! ” repeated Mme .
It was the king , who was passing through the streets which led from the Louvre to the Hôtel de Ville , and which were all illuminated with colored lanterns .
Besides , my friend , Providence has warned us , that we may be on our guard .
The camp had entered Saint Omer ; the friends made a little detour and went to the camp , and gave the army an exact account of the flight of the king and queen .
He had assigned himself the task of saving a man ’ s life that day ; chance caused that man to be myself .
Then Dantès rose more agile and light than the kid among the myrtles and shrubs of these wild rocks , took his gun in one hand , his pickaxe in the other , and hastened towards the rock on which the marks he had noted terminated .
As for the remission of your sins , we have the archbishop of Paris , who has the very greatest power at the court of Rome , and even the coadjutor , who possesses some plenary indulgences ; we will recommend you to him. ” “ Consider , Maillard , ” said the curate , “ that I have recommended you to this gentleman , who is a powerful lord , and that I have made myself responsible for you. ” “ I know , monsieur le curé , ” said the beggar , “ that you have always been very kind to me , and therefore I , in my turn , will be serviceable to you. ” “ And do you think your power as great with the fraternity as monsieur le curé told me it was just now ? ” “ I think they have some esteem for me , ” said the mendicant with pride , “ and that not only will they obey me , but wherever I go they will follow me. ” “ And could you count on fifty resolute men , good , unemployed , but active souls , brawlers , capable of bringing down the walls of the Palais Royal by crying , ‘ Down with Mazarin , ’ as fell those at Jericho ? ” “ I think , ” said the beggar , “ I can undertake things more difficult and more important than that. ” “ Ah , ah , ” said Gondy , “ you will undertake , then , some night , to throw up some ten barricades ? ” “ I will undertake to throw up fifty , and when the day comes , to defend them. ” “ I ’ faith ! ” exclaimed Gondy , “ you speak with a certainty that gives me pleasure ; and since monsieur le curé can answer for you—— ” “ I answer for him , ” said the curate .
Help , comrades , help ! ” By a rapid movement , which the gendarme ’ s practiced eye had perceived , Dantès sprang forward to precipitate himself into the sea ; but four vigorous arms seized him as his feet quitted the bottom of the boat .
Felton , quite bewildered , almost mad , stood speechless .
They heard the horsemen pass under the windows .
I shall try , in the latter case ( alas !
Everything was as Athos had foreseen .
“ Ah , ” said he , involuntarily following Noirtier ’ s eyes , which were fixed on Madame de Villefort , who repeated : “ This poor child would be better in bed .
“ Well ? ” asked Peppino of his friend .
What avails recrimination over matters wholly past recall ?
Morrel suffered an exclamation of horror and surprise to escape him .
The story of Ganymede , Maximilian , is not a fable , but an allegory. ” “ When do you leave ? ” “ Immediately ; the steamer waits , and in an hour I shall be far from you .
An unknown person had been with him that morning , and made an appointment with him in the Rue Saint-Jacques ; unfortunately , the general ’ s valet , who was dressing his hair at the moment when the stranger entered , heard the street mentioned , but did not catch the number. ” As the police minister related this to the king , Villefort , who looked as if his very life hung on the speaker ’ s lips , turned alternately red and pale .
“ In fact , ” said Athos , “ this delay is not natural ; they took the shortest route and should have arrived before we did. ” “ Add to that D ’ Artagnan ’ s rapidity in action and that he is not the man to lose an hour , knowing that we were expecting him. ” “ He expected , you will remember , to be here on the fifth. ” “ And here we are at the ninth .
let him pass. ” D ’ Artagnan was perhaps about to reply , when a blow , similar to that of a mallet falling on the head of an ox , was heard .
As soon as the two friends met they began a conversation which was emphasized by frequent gesticulation .
You told me that your instinct , —and although you pretend to know nothing about speculations , I think on the contrary , that your comprehension is very clear upon certain affairs , —well , you told me that your instinct led you to believe the grant would be given to the company called the Southern .
What do you wish to say about it ? ” “ I desire that a statement contained in it should be rectified. ” “ To what do you refer ?
As for himself , he dismounted and remained under a beautiful group of chestnuts in flower , amidst which were murmuring a multitude of happy bees , and bade Olivain send the host to him with writing paper and ink , to be placed on a table which he found there , conveniently ready .
Buckingham , left alone , walked toward a mirror .
One hundred thousand francs for a loaf ? ” “ One hundred thousand francs , ” repeated Peppino .
Night overtook her ; she stopped , and slept at an inn .
But this is droll , ” cried D ’ Artagnan , consoled , and holding his sides with laughter .
1.D .
Athos must have become an idiot by this time from drinking .
“ My dear sir , if a trifle like that could suffice me , I should never have given myself the trouble of opening an account .
Noirtier and Valentine had given him leave to go twice a week , and he was now availing himself of that permission .
“ Certainly , I might have lived happily amongst those good people , who adored me , but my perverse disposition prevailed over the virtues which my adopted mother endeavored to instil into my heart .
“ I am ready to speak , my lord. ” “ Ah !
“ ‘ There , ’ said La Carconte , as she placed a bottle of wine on the table , ‘ supper is ready whenever you are. ’ “ ‘ And you ? ’ asked Joannes .
This advice appeared good to the future chancellor .
We are judges of wounds , we old soldiers , ” Athos added , smiling .
Grimaud waited till he heard the bolt grind in the lock and when he was satisfied that he was alone he slowly rose from his recumbent posture .
As he passed the table on which the axe was laid , he stopped , and turning with a smile , said : “ Ah !
He remained silent , his eyes fixed upon the light ; the boat went on , but the prisoner thought only of Mercédès .
This time it was not a host but a hostess who received him .
Section 2 .
Their return was cheerful .
“ She has never been so kind before .
“ Have the goodness to send mine to Athos ’ s residence .
“ It is quite immaterial to me , ” said Monte Cristo , “ and it was very unnecessary to disturb me at the Opera for such a trifle .
The first idea that occurred to Milady ’ s mind was that she had been betrayed by Kitty , and that she had recounted to the baron the selfish aversion toward himself of which she had imprudently allowed some marks to escape before her servant .
Nothing of all this escaped Grimaud , but La Ramee looked on with the curiosity of a father who thinks that he may perhaps get a cheap idea concerning a new toy for his children .
You shall see. ” And Dame Nanette sprang to the window , threw it open , and in such a piercing voice that it might have been heard in the square of Notre Dame : “ Help ! ” she screamed , “ my master is being arrested ; the Councillor Broussel is being arrested !
I want friends ; I want faithful servants .
I should like to have seen the count take something in my house , if only an ice .
The most vague and wild thoughts passed through his mind .
They listened ; he went into his sleeping-room , and fastened the door inside .
At the extremity of the courtyard , where , close to a portico formed of Ionic columns , were the dog kennels , rose an oblong building , the pavilion of the orangery , a half circle , inclosing the court of honor .
The count alone seemed unmoved—nay , more , a slight color seemed striving to rise in his pale cheeks .
He proposed the conditions—the two harnesses , either against one horse or a hundred pistoles .
When he was completely dressed he said : “ Send hither Monsieur d ’ Artagnan. ” The valet went out of the room , this time by the centre door , but still as silently as before ; one might have fancied him an apparition .
It was no longer a rival who was beloved ; it was himself who was apparently beloved .
The Frenchman had been so impatient to reach the house of Thomson & French that he would not wait for the horses to be harnessed , but left word for the carriage to overtake him on the road , or to wait for him at the bankers ’ door .
“ Here is one , ” he said .
He glanced around this second grotto ; it was , like the first , empty .
But come , I am waiting for you. ” Both men entered Monte Cristo ’ s carriage , which in the course of a few minutes deposited them safely at No .
This was simply because he lived in the hôtel .
The war with Spain being ended , Fernand ’ s career was checked by the long peace which seemed likely to endure throughout Europe .
“ No , no , ” she vociferated , “ no , you can not wish that ! ” 50169m “ What I do not wish , madame , is that you should perish on the scaffold .
Mazarin breathed again .
The novice , seeing Milady in bed , was about to follow the example of the superior ; but Milady stopped her .
“ Mother , ” said the young man , looking alternately at Madame Morrel and her daughter , “ what has occurred—what has happened ?
There he again appeared uneasy and embarrassed , and stopped for the third time .
I had vague perceptions of space traversed , of the rolling of a carriage , of a horrible dream in which my strength had become exhausted ; but all this was so dark and so indistinct in my mind that these events seemed to belong to another life than mine , and yet mixed with mine in fantastic duality .
“ True , ” he replied , “ and my protector is very kind. ” “ That dear protector , ” said Caderousse ; “ and how much does he give you monthly ? ” “ Five thousand francs. ” “ As many thousands as you give me hundreds !
“ This will do , ” said he , “ and from this letter , which might have ruined me , I will make my fortune .
D ’ Artagnan here ? ” “ Himself ! ” “ But that ’ s impossible !
Shows how with Threat and Pen more is effected than by the Sword .
You must have discovered a mine , or else become a stockbroker. ” “ So that , as you confess , you are jealous ? ” “ No , I am pleased—so pleased that I wished to congratulate you ; but as I am not quite properly dressed , I chose my opportunity , that I might not compromise you. ” “ Yes , and a fine opportunity you have chosen ! ” exclaimed Andrea ; “ you speak to me before my servant. ” “ How can I help that , my boy ?
I was trying on my wedding suit .
“ Don ’ t waste a charge !
D ’ Artagnan took leave of Milady , and left the saloon the happiest of men .
As to the wounded man , he had been taken in at once , and , as we have said , in a very bad state .
A sort of smile played on his lips .
At the sight of the diamond , which was as large as a hazel-nut , La Carconte ’ s eyes sparkled with cupidity. ” “ And what did you think of this fine story , eavesdropper ? ” said Monte Cristo ; “ did you credit it ? ” “ Yes , your excellency .
He gave Porthos a second nudge of the knee and Porthos got up as if to stretch his legs and took care at the same time to ascertain that his sword could be drawn smoothly from the scabbard .
30321m “ Doubt , if you please , but I am sure of what I say .
Thus every now and then he saw in fancy amid the sailors , seated on a rock , or undulating in the vessel , one of the shadows which had shared his dream with looks and kisses .
“ Their demand was fair , and the chief inclined his head in sign of acquiescence .
The Flight .
Then , when they had disappeared , he said with a smile , — “ ’ Tis strange that it should be among such men that we find proofs of friendship and devotion. ” Then he dragged himself cautiously to the top of a rock , from which he had a full view of the sea , and thence he saw the tartan complete her preparations for sailing , weigh anchor , and , balancing herself as gracefully as a water-fowl ere it takes to the wing , set sail .
It is M. Franz de Quesnel , Baron d ’ Épinay. ” While his wife was speaking , Villefort had narrowly watched the old man ’ s countenance .
How do you know the motives that person may have for trying to extract all he can from you ? ” “ I pledge you my word , madam , ” said the abbé , “ that my intentions are good ; and that your husband can incur no risk , provided he answers me candidly. ” “ Ah , that ’ s all very fine , ” retorted the woman .
’ tis well , ” said Porthos , “ we shall remember that ; but see , there is a postscript from Aramis. ” “ So there is , ” said D ’ Artagnan , and he read : “ We conceal the place where we are , dear friends , knowing your brotherly affection and that you would come and die with us were we to reveal it. ” “ Confound it , ” interrupted Porthos , with an explosion of passion which sent Mousqueton to the other end of the room ; “ are they in danger of dying ? ” D ’ Artagnan continued : “ Athos bequeaths to you Raoul , and I bequeath to you my revenge .
“ You must be Satan ! ” cried she .
The fact was that none of his servants , none of the travelers present , could have gained anything by being possessed of this paper .
“ Sir , ” said d ’ Avrigny to Villefort , “ call Mademoiselle Valentine ’ s maid , if you please. ” Villefort went himself to find her ; and d ’ Avrigny approached Noirtier .
You are very fortunate to have lost , believe me , my dear D ’ Artagnan .
I think a little exertion would do me good. ” The two friends walked out on the fortress .
Monte Cristo was more affectionate than ever , —indeed , his manner was so kind that several times Morrel was on the point of telling him all .
Haydée Scarcely had the count ’ s horses cleared the angle of the boulevard , when Albert , turning towards the count , burst into a loud fit of laughter—much too loud in fact not to give the idea of its being rather forced and unnatural .
“ There ’ s one just arrived , ” and she handed the letter to D ’ Artagnan .
“ I ? ” “ Yes , you , ” said the count , at the same time advancing towards Andrea , and slipping a packet of bank-notes into the young man ’ s hand .
How does it happen , then , that he is in your service ? ” “ He has been guilty of certain escapades and fears he may be disturbed. ” And the musketeer narrated to his friend Planchet ’ s adventure .
He crossed the court , ran up the two flights to Athos ’ s apartment , and knocked at the door enough to break it down .
The monk ’ s eyes glittered .
Being no disciple of Cagliostro , I was wholly unable to do this ; so , by way of getting out of the scrape , I said , ‘ Ask Morcerf ; he has got the whole history of his beloved Monte Cristo at his fingers ’ ends ; ’ whereupon the baroness signified her desire to see you. ” “ Is it not almost incredible , ” said Madame Danglars , “ that a person having at least half a million of secret-service money at his command , should possess so little information ? ” “ Let me assure you , madame , ” said Lucien , “ that had I really the sum you mention at my disposal , I would employ it more profitably than in troubling myself to obtain particulars respecting the Count of Monte Cristo , whose only merit in my eyes consists in his being twice as rich as a nabob .
Turning towards Athos and his friends , “ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ allow me to correct your words , if you please .
Villefort ’ s brow darkened more and more , his white lips and clenched teeth filled Dantès with apprehension .
Hastily snatching up the lighted candle , I hurried to the staircase ; about midway a body was lying quite across the stairs .
I knew a Lord Wilmore , who was constantly doing actions of this kind. ” “ Without revealing himself ? ” “ He was an eccentric being , and did not believe in the existence of gratitude. ” “ Oh , Heaven , ” exclaimed Julie , clasping her hands , “ in what did he believe , then ? ” 30047m “ He did not credit it at the period which I knew him , ” said Monte Cristo , touched to the heart by the accents of Julie ’ s voice ; “ but , perhaps , since then he has had proofs that gratitude does exist. ” “ And do you know this gentleman , monsieur ? ” inquired Emmanuel .
What I can not tell , —something wonderful , an absurdity , a miracle , —of what nature he alone can tell who has mingled with our reason that folly we call hope .
Two musketeers were pacing the court , to whom D ’ Artagnan called by their names .
“ Sir , ” said Beauchamp , who had not yet spoken , “ you appear to accuse the count , who is absent from Paris at this moment , and can not justify himself. ” “ I accuse no one , sir , ” said Danglars ; “ I relate , and I will repeat before the count what I have said to you. ” “ Does the count know what answer you received ? ” “ Yes ; I showed it to him. ” “ Did he know my father ’ s Christian name was Fernand , and his family name Mondego ? ” “ Yes , I had told him that long since , and I did only what any other would have done in my circumstances , and perhaps less .
I saw your vessel , and fearful of being left to perish on the desolate island , I swam off on a piece of wreckage to try and intercept your course .
“ Now , ” continued Villefort , “ those to whom the guilt really belongs , by whom the crime was committed , on whose heads the justice of man may probably descend here , and the certain judgment of God hereafter , would rejoice in the opportunity thus afforded of bestowing such a peace-offering as Valentine on the son of him whose life they so ruthlessly destroyed. ” Noirtier had succeeded in mastering his emotion more than could have been deemed possible with such an enfeebled and shattered frame .
In an instant a space three feet long by two feet broad was cleared , and Dantès could see an oaken coffer , bound with cut steel ; in the middle of the lid he saw engraved on a silver plate , which was still untarnished , the arms of the Spada family—viz. , a sword , _en pale_ , on an oval shield , like all the Italian armorial bearings , and surmounted by a cardinal ’ s hat .
Will you go up with me ? ” “ I follow you. ” Monte Cristo entered the tower , which was divided into three stories .
I don ’ t know him .
Every five minutes Albert took out his watch ; at length it pointed to seven .
Choose one of us to replace the Comte de la Fere. ” “ As long as I don ’ t fight with him it is the same to me with whom I fight .
“ Really , ” said Athos to them , “ you are not men but children , to let a woman terrify you so !
Are you not a sportsman and a great wolf-hunter ?
The small and angular head of this man , his white hair and thick gray moustaches , caused him to be easily recognized by Baptistin , who had received an exact description of the expected visitor , and who was awaiting him in the hall .
Ah , my mother , my poor mother ! ” said Albert , gazing through his tears at his mother ’ s portrait ; “ if you know this , how much must you suffer ! ” “ Come , ” said Beauchamp , taking both his hands , “ take courage , my friend. ” “ But how came that first note to be inserted in your journal ?
“ Oh , as to his name , I know nothing about it ; but if I were ever to meet him , I should recognize him in an instant , I will answer for it , were he among a thousand persons. ” The face of the commissary grew still darker .
“ So from that time , monsieur , ” continued the latter , “ we have led the most miserable life imaginable ; for you must know , monsieur , that all our provisions are in the cellar .
Albert appeared not to notice this remark , which was , however , so rude that Madame Danglars blushed .
Those who wish to respect him as a master would not buy him as a slave .
So now I have told my secret. ” “ A telegraph ? ” repeated Madame de Villefort .
“ Pardon me , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , who had profited by the moment he had been left alone to put back M. de Tréville ’ s clock three-quarters of an hour , “ but I thought , as it was yet only twenty-five minutes past nine , it was not too late to wait upon you. ” “ Twenty-five minutes past nine ! ” cried M. de Tréville , looking at the clock ; “ why , that ’ s impossible ! ” “ Look , rather , monsieur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ the clock shows it. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said M. de Tréville ; “ I believed it later .
where are you running to ? ” exclaimed a voice .
I am not forgotten .
Our partnership began in the month of April .
Has he taken off his doublet ? ” “ On the contrary , everything is in the kitchen .
The magistrate , harassed and fatigued , had descended to the garden of his house , and in a gloomy mood , similar to that in which Tarquin lopped off the tallest poppies , he began knocking off with his cane the long and dying branches of the rose-trees , which , placed along the avenue , seemed like the spectres of the brilliant flowers which had bloomed in the past season .
Does not his appearance speak for him ?
He reminded me of it , telling me if I did not pay for you , he would be paid by M. Morrel ; and so , you see , lest he might do you an injury—— ” “ Well ? ” “ Why , I paid him. ” “ But , ” cried Dantès , “ it was a hundred and forty francs I owed Caderousse. ” “ Yes , ” stammered the old man .
“ But we are no longer in the city , sir , ” said she .
The three friends looked on , panting and astonished .
What do you say ? ” “ I say that it was you who gave me the wine ; I say that it was you who desired me to drink it .
“ I come from the cardinal , ” said the officer .
On chairs were laid elegant masquerade costumes of blue and white satin .
[ 18 ] Lake Maggiore .
“ M .
It was to that obedience I owe her portrait. ” D ’ Artagnan was amazed to note by what fragile and unknown threads the destinies of nations and the lives of men are suspended .
that Mazarin was contemptible and that I wouldn ’ t serve Mazarin .
Three days afterward Pistache was found dead—poisoned .
He has slept a long time on a hard bed , so he won ’ t object to a soft one ; take every care of him , I beg of you. ” Charles bowed and retired .
Caderousse and his wife started and looked aghast at each other .
Despite these efforts , Project Gutenberg™ electronic works , and the medium on which they may be stored , may contain “ Defects , ” such as , but not limited to , incomplete , inaccurate or corrupt data , transcription errors , a copyright or other intellectual property infringement , a defective or damaged disk or other medium , a computer virus , or computer codes that damage or can not be read by your equipment .
Deliberations were being held when a lieutenant in the guards , named Comminges , made his appearance , with his clothes all torn , his face streaming with blood .
Do you know the decision we have come to , mother ? ” “ Have we come to any ? ” “ Yes ; it is decided that you are to live at Marseilles , and that I am to leave for Africa , where I will earn for myself the right to use the name I now bear , instead of the one I have thrown aside. ” Mercédès sighed .
“ You see , ” continued he , glancing toward the grate , where fragments of burnt paper fluttered in the flames , “ the letter is destroyed ; you and I alone know of its existence ; should you , therefore , be questioned , deny all knowledge of it—deny it boldly , and you are saved. ” “ Be satisfied ; I will deny it. ” “ It was the only letter you had ? ” “ It was. ” “ Swear it. ” “ I swear it. ” Villefort rang .
“ I have made an agreement with the navy , that the access to my island shall be free of all charge .
We have made ourselves the constant guardians of our men , and while I sleep Monsieur du Vallon watches. ” “ Ah !
Yes , the poor man may be expected to leave me a widow , any hour , ” continued she , throwing a significant glance at Porthos .
They are certainly less particular with a foreigner than with a Frenchman .
That is it , is it not , monseigneur , and I shall have nothing else to do ? ” “ That is it , ” replied the cardinal , dryly .
Andrea had scarcely opened his eyes when his predominating idea presented itself , and whispered in his ear that he had slept too long .
The left of the carriage was as well cleared as the right , and they drew up the blind of the window which Mazarin , less heroic than the king , had taken the precaution to lower .
Stop , there are a fine body of citizens passing ; quite attractive , by Jupiter !
A slight oscillation showed Dantès that all went well .
“ Be satisfied , ” replied Felton ; “ he will not sail. ” Milady started with joy .
“ Oh , second father , ” he exclaimed , “ thou who hast given me liberty , knowledge , riches ; thou who , like beings of a superior order to ourselves , couldst understand the science of good and evil ; if in the depths of the tomb there still remain something within us which can respond to the voice of those who are left on earth ; if after death the soul ever revisit the places where we have lived and suffered , —then , noble heart , sublime soul , then I conjure thee by the paternal love thou didst bear me , by the filial obedience I vowed to thee , grant me some sign , some revelation !
We are observed ; they are coming to meet us .
“ Well , ” said Danglars , “ did you see him ? ” “ I have just left him , ” answered Caderousse .
Barrois asked , “ Mademoiselle Valentine ? ” Noirtier nodded his head .
Now , whenever the king halted , the Musketeers halted .
You will find here , moreover , the young woman of whom I spoke , who is persecuted , no doubt , in consequence of some court intrigue .
At the expiration of ten minutes Felton came .
We even joked very pleasantly , if I remember rightly , on the very probable contingency of your being charged by the cardinal with my arrest .
A fresh practical joke now occurred to the duke .
It is impossible that your Majesty can make all this ado about a letter written to my brother. ” The king , attacked in a manner so direct , did not know what to answer ; and he thought that this was the moment for expressing the desire which he was not going to have made until the evening before the fête .
Besides , this return offered him the advantage of watching his prisoner .
I have seen the Bastille .
“ Sir , ” said the cardinal , “ you have heard me ?
Those wretches wanted to take away my sword !
Instead of that , Louise—do you understand ? —air , liberty , melody of birds , plains of Lombardy , Venetian canals , Roman palaces , the Bay of Naples .
Another recollection contributed also to sadden Raoul : on their arrival at Sonores he had perceived , hidden behind a screen of poplars , a little chateau which so vividly recalled that of La Valliere to his mind that he halted for nearly ten minutes to gaze at it , and resumed his journey with a sigh too abstracted even to reply to Olivain ’ s respectful inquiry about the cause of so much fixed attention .
“ Thanks , my brave friend ! ” cried Milady ; “ and when shall I be avenged ? ” “ Tomorrow—immediately—when you please ! ” Milady was about to cry out , “ Immediately , ” but she reflected that such precipitation would not be very gracious toward D ’ Artagnan .
“ Help , help ! ” Barrois turned round and with a great effort stumbled a few steps , then fell at the feet of Noirtier , and resting his hand on the knee of the invalid , exclaimed : “ My master , my good master ! ” At this moment M. de Villefort , attracted by the noise , appeared on the threshold .
“ Then there is no revenge ? ” “ Our conditions said , ‘ No revenge , ’ you will please to recollect. ” “ That is true ; the horse shall be restored to your lackey , monsieur. ” “ A moment , ” said Athos ; “ with your permission , monsieur , I wish to speak a word with my friend. ” “ Say on. ” Athos drew D ’ Artagnan aside .
I ask for it ; without it I should be tried in a court of justice because I did not raise the alarm .
We keep him in the cellar !
“ Well , your Majesty , ” said he , “ you see how far my enemies go ; they menace you with two wars if you do not dismiss me .
“ From M. Beauchamp , ” replied Florentin .
Have you not perceived it ? ” “ It may be ; but you know the more hearts are worth the capture , the more difficult they are to be won. ” “ Oh , difficulties do not affright me , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
His resolution not to sign lasted two days , after which he offered a million for some food .
here , it is eleven o ’ clock .
That great man who was so revered by D ’ Artagnan the elder served as an object of ridicule to the Musketeers of Tréville , who cracked their jokes upon his bandy legs and his crooked back .
They are quite new , and have not yet been used .
“ ’ Tis true , madame , ” answered he , “ that my father was a Girondin , but he was not among the number of those who voted for the king ’ s death ; he was an equal sufferer with yourself during the Reign of Terror , and had well-nigh lost his head on the same scaffold on which your father perished. ” “ True , ” replied the marquise , without wincing in the slightest degree at the tragic remembrance thus called up ; “ but bear in mind , if you please , that our respective parents underwent persecution and proscription from diametrically opposite principles ; in proof of which I may remark , that while my family remained among the staunchest adherents of the exiled princes , your father lost no time in joining the new government ; and that while the Citizen Noirtier was a Girondin , the Count Noirtier became a senator. ” “ Dear mother , ” interposed Renée , “ you know very well it was agreed that all these disagreeable reminiscences should forever be laid aside. ” “ Suffer me , also , madame , ” replied Villefort , “ to add my earnest request to Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran ’ s , that you will kindly allow the veil of oblivion to cover and conceal the past .
He urged the horse again into a trot .
Withdraw him gently from the queen , whom he does not like , from Mazarin , whom he despises .
In the court he found Penelon , who , with a rouleau of a hundred francs in either hand , seemed unable to make up his mind to retain them .
Arrived at the barracks he made himself known , took the best horse in the stables , mounted and gained the high road .
Felton mounted the ladder first , and gave his hand to Milady , while the sailors supported her , for the sea was still much agitated .
“ Bring hither that horse. ” Friquet heard perfectly , but he pretended not to do so and tried to continue his road .
Do you know Monsieur de Rochefort ? ” “ One of my bitterest enemies—the faithful friend of Cardinal Richelieu. ” “ I know that , and we sent him to the Bastile , ” said Mazarin .
Raoul , delighted at the count ’ s companionship , perceived , or affected to perceive nothing of this byplay .
And we have just heard , ” continued Albert , “ of a new deed of his , and so heroic a one , that , although I have seen him today for the first time , I request you to allow me to introduce him as my friend. ” At these words it was still possible to observe in Monte Cristo the concentrated look , changing color , and slight trembling of the eyelid that show emotion .
From a distance Dantès recognized the rig and handling of _La Jeune Amélie_ , and dragging himself with affected difficulty towards the landing-place , he met his companions with an assurance that , although considerably better than when they quitted him , he still suffered acutely from his late accident .
“ ‘ Yes , but I came to ask something more than to be your companion. ’ “ ‘ And what may that be ? ’ inquired the bandits with astonishment .
“ Well ? ” “ I would reform her ; it would be rendering a service to her future son-in-law. ” “ How would you set about it ? ” “ Ah , that would be easy enough—I would give her a lesson. ” “ A lesson ? ” “ Yes .
“ No , I shall go incognito , count , under the name of Marie Michon. ” “ You are adorable , madame. ” “ But do not keep Raoul with you. ” “ Why not ? ” “ Because he is in love. ” “ He !
“ But when you held her in your power , why did you not drown her , strangle her , hang her ? ” said Porthos .
If anyone seeks a quarrel with you , shun it , were it with a child of ten years old .
“ Tell him , ” answered the brave man , “ to let the king know that they have not killed me outright .
“ Are you not a Christian ? ” he said , falling on his knees .
Pardon my frankness , too , my lord. ” “ I am obliged to you , count , for this pleasing intelligence !
Chapter VIII .
He is my master , and I am his slave ; he has the right to notice nothing. ” The count shuddered at the tones of a voice which penetrated the inmost recesses of his heart ; his eyes met those of the young girl and he could not bear their brilliancy .
This doublet and hose , though new , were creased , like traveling clothes for a long time packed in a portmanteau .
A terrible battle between the two men seemed imminent ; but by degrees Carlini ’ s features relaxed , his hand , which had grasped one of the pistols in his belt , fell to his side .
‘ Sdeath !
They breakfasted in haste , and at six o ’ clock had already gone ten miles .
At that moment a hand touched his shoulder .
He remained there ten minutes , motionless and dumb , listening to the beating of his own heart .
fire !
It restores the blue color of litmus-paper reddened by an acid , and it turns syrup of violets green .
you may be easy , then—you ’ ll get there. ” D ’ Artagnan then saw a musket-barrel leveled at him ; he had no time to draw from his holsters .
Danglars meditated an escape ; but the walls were solid rock , a man was sitting reading at the only outlet to the cell , and behind that man shapes armed with guns continually passed .
Planchet had just done the same when an unexpected weight fell upon the back of the horse , which sank down .
The first feeling that pervaded Paris on hearing of the flight to Saint Germain , was that sort of affright which seizes children when they awake in the night and find themselves alone .
Coquenard smiled , and upon a sign from her everyone eagerly took his seat .
At the word _Notary_ , Noirtier made a sign to her to stop .
“ What is it ? ” said the light-horseman .
The Tower of St. Jacques de la Boucherie .
“ I hastened to you , ” continued Beauchamp , “ to tell you , Albert , that in this changing age , the faults of a father can not revert upon his children .
In fact , it seems to me so great an honor for a prisoner that I think Monsieur de Comminges must be mistaken. ” “ What ?
that is their mean yet mighty byword of reproach—the watchword with which they assassinated , hanged , and made away with Concini ; and if I gave them their way they would assassinate , hang , and make away with me in the same manner , although they have nothing to complain of except a tax or two now and then .
no accident has happened to him ? ” “ None , sir. ” “ And he lives ? ” “ Still at the Hotel of the Great Charlemagne. ” “ And passes his time ? ” “ Sometimes with the queen of England , sometimes with Madame de Chevreuse .
The people were in an excited mood , but , like a swarm of frightened bees , seemed not to know at what point to concentrate ; and it was very evident that if leaders of the people were not provided all this agitation would pass off in idle buzzing .
“ Yes , ” motioned the latter , with a firmness which seemed to declare that with the help of Valentine and his old servant , who both knew what his wishes were , he was quite prepared to maintain the contest .
The Hundred Days M. Noirtier was a true prophet , and things progressed rapidly , as he had predicted .
He stopped a moment in the anteroom , as if hesitating whether to turn to his own apartment or into Madame de Saint-Méran ’ s ; Morrel concealed himself behind a door ; Valentine remained motionless , grief seeming to deprive her of all fear .
Porthos ate his wing of the fowl timidly , and shuddered when he felt the knee of the procurator ’ s wife under the table , as it came in search of his .
“ Ah ! ” said Aramis , “ but you forget the officer. ” D ’ Artagnan grew pale with rage .
D ’ Artagnan slipped out of the cathedral and placed himself in ambuscade at the corner of the Rue des Canettes ; it was impossible that Bazin should go out of the cathedral without his seeing him .
They arrived at Ablain without accident .
I am doing what is right. ” The king waved his hand to Tréville , who left him and rejoined the Musketeers , whom he found sharing the forty pistoles with D ’ Artagnan .
Count , Count , ” added she , “ you know that I wait for you. ” At this appeal D ’ Artagnan drew Kitty quietly away , and slipped into the chamber .
“ Had I been as great a friend of Jonah as I am of D ’ Artagnan I should have followed him even into the inside of the whale itself ; and you would have done the same , Aramis. ” “ Certainly—but you make me out better than I am , dear count .
The queen at that time liked me and called me the most honest man in the kingdom .
From the apartments on the ground floor might be heard the sound of music , with the whirl of the waltz and galop , while brilliant streams of light shone through the openings of the Venetian blinds .
“ Well ? ” said D ’ Artagnan , at last .
“ Place this man in the care of his guards again , and let him wait till I send for him. ” “ No , monseigneur , no , it is not he ! ” cried Bonacieux ; “ no , I was deceived .
A rogue does not laugh in the same way that an honest man does ; a hypocrite does not shed the tears of a man of good faith .
The two Musketeers met at the gate .
What is to be said ?
and Gabrielle d ’ Estrees—as good-natured , as brave , as proud , and above all , as Gascon as his ancestor , but less elaborately educated .
“ Why do you call me baron ? ” said Danglars ; “ you know that I care nothing for my title .
Besides , I long ago determined to put an end to all these petty intrigues of policy and love .
“ It is only five minutes past eight , ” said he to Morrel ; “ there is not much time lost yet. ” “ Oh , I made no allusion of that kind , ” replied Morrel .
“ Faith !
However much the ballet might have claimed his attention , Franz was too deeply occupied with the beautiful Greek to take any note of it ; while she seemed to experience an almost childlike delight in watching it , her eager , animated looks contrasting strongly with the utter indifference of her companion , who , during the whole time the piece lasted , never even moved , not even when the furious , crashing din produced by the trumpets , cymbals , and Chinese bells sounded their loudest from the orchestra .
They had agreed to see the Carnival at Rome that year , and that Franz , who for the last three or four years had inhabited Italy , should act as _cicerone_ to Albert .
Recollect what our excellent father so often told us , ‘ It was no Englishman that thus saved us. ’ ” Monte Cristo started .
Grimaud made a sign that he was not .
To a look of interrogation which they made , Milady replied by a sign that it was he .
“ To wait ! ” replied Athos .
Will that do ? ” “ My dear Athos , ” said Aramis , “ you speak like Nestor , who was , as everyone knows , the wisest among the Greeks. ” “ Well , then , ” said Athos , “ it is agreed .
Porthos would have given ten years of his life to possess this sword .
“ Reverend sir ! ” “ You lie !
Are you still friends with Monsieur Porthos and Monsieur Aramis ? ” “ Add Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , my lord .
Felton began to descend the ladder slowly , step by step .
Before fifteen days are gone by I shall be away from here. ’ Ah , try it ! ” Milady , finding her thoughts betrayed , dug her nails into her flesh to subdue every emotion that might give to her face any expression except agony .
“ Tell Haydée , ” said he , “ that I will take coffee with her , and give her to understand that I desire permission to present one of my friends to her. ” Ali bowed and left the room .
But he was continually thinking over some means of escape for his young companion , and anticipating the pleasure he would enjoy .
In the meanwhile I am a Musketeer ; in that quality I say what I please , and at this moment it pleases me to say that you weary me. ” “ Aramis ! ” “ Porthos ! ” “ Gentlemen !
“ Well , Monsieur de Busigny , I will bet you , ” said Athos , “ that my three companions , Messieurs Porthos , Aramis , and D ’ Artagnan , and myself , will go and breakfast in the bastion St. Gervais , and we will remain there an hour , by the watch , whatever the enemy may do to dislodge us. ” Porthos and Aramis looked at each other ; they began to comprehend .
“ Oh !
You will learn horsemanship , swordsmanship in all its branches , and dancing .
He had us in his power and he let us go .
“ Try to stand upright , and let the lovers make love without interruption .
de Guitaut , Mme .
As he descended the staircase , Morrel met Penelon , who was going up .
Chapter VII .
It was estimated at fifty thousand francs. ” “ Bless me ! ” exclaimed Caderousse , “ fifty thousand francs !
At eleven o ’ clock Kitty came to him .
This time he was both seen and heard , and the tartan instantly steered towards him .
He thought of the fair Greek he had seen in the count ’ s box at the Argentina and Valle theatres .
D ’ Artagnan rushed toward the refreshment room , the three Musketeers and the two Guards following him .
The count was , it may be remembered , a most temperate guest .
She stopped on the threshold , breathed a sigh , and addressing the queen : “ Why , then , do you always weep , mother , when I am away from you ? ” she said .
In Gascony ’ tis no dishonor , sir , nobody is rich ; and Henry IV. , of glorious memory , who was the king of the Gascons , as His Majesty Philip IV .
Imposing silence , Grimaud put out the little night lamp , then knelt down and poured into the lieutenant ’ s ear a recital melodramatic enough not to require play of feature to give it pith .
Lord de Winter was not at home ; and it was Milady who this time did all the honors of the evening .
What I have done , then , has been for the queen , and not at all for your Grace .
Notwithstanding all his inquiries respecting Mme .
“ Project Gutenberg ” is a registered trademark .
ARAMIS AND HIS THESIS Chapter XXVII .
“ See , my Lord , ” said he , in a deep , gloomy tone , “ here is a woman who was under my guard , and who has killed herself ! ” “ Be at ease , Felton , ” said Lord de Winter .
He went direct to the Bedford Tavern , and the host , who recognized him , was delighted to see him again with such a numerous and promising company .
Let me see : with regard to Porthos , I received a letter from him , too .
These men were shopkeepers , who had arms to lend to those who had none .
“ Well , ” he said , turning towards his wondering son , when this disguise was completed , “ well , do you think your police will recognize me now. ” “ No , father , ” stammered Villefort ; “ at least , I hope not. ” “ And now , my dear boy , ” continued Noirtier , “ I rely on your prudence to remove all the things which I leave in your care. ” “ Oh , rely on me , ” said Villefort .
Your ignorance on the subject , therefore , is easily accounted for .
The man in the mantle advanced towards me , but as he drew near I saw that he had a weapon in his hand .
“ Perfectly well ; quite rested , sir. ” “ You are still growing , ” Athos continued , with that charming and paternal interest felt by a grown man for a youth .
Impossible , impossible ! ” But what was real and not less incredible was the purse he held in his hand , the acceptance receipted—the splendid diamond .
Now , to apply it in your case , —to whom could your disappearance have been serviceable ? ” “ To no one , by Heaven !
Marshal de Grammont put himself at the head of all the available cavalry and infantry and took the road to Vendin , leaving the Duc de Chatillon to await and bring on the rest .
but I make war in my own way. ” The two friends were crouching down , meantime , behind a tub in the side alley .
M. Bonacieux , who was ignorant that D ’ Artagnan had overheard his conversation with the stranger of Meung , related to his young tenant the persecutions of that monster , M. de Laffemas , whom he never ceased to designate , during his account , by the title of the “ cardinal ’ s executioner , ” and expatiated at great length upon the Bastille , the bolts , the wickets , the dungeons , the gratings , the instruments of torture .
Every few minutes he turned around , and thus obliged us to conceal ourselves .
He followed a short distance close under the wall , then crossed a path , hid entered a clump of trees .
Reports were whispered about , like certain sounds which announce , as they whistle from wave to wave , the coming storm—and when they pass athwart a multitude , presage an emeute .
“ To the installation of my rival at M. Danglars ’ . ” “ What rival ? ” “ _Ma foi ! _ what rival ?
They had passed the Tête de Mort , were now off the Anse du Pharo , and about to double the battery .
By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work , you indicate that you have read , understand , agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property ( trademark/copyright ) agreement .
Porthos had been trying a new horse ; D ’ Artagnan was on guard at the Louvre ; Aramis had been to visit one of his penitents in the neighborhood ; and Athos , whose domicile was established in the Rue Guenegaud , found himself close at hand .
Someone was walking down before them , and this person , hearing the rustling of a silk dress , turned around .
In their stead D ’ Artagnan thought he perceived in an obscure corner a discipline cord suspended from a nail in the wall .
My children , two of them , at least , the Duke of York and the Princess Elizabeth , are far away from me , exposed to the blows of the ambitious and our foes ; my husband , the king , is leading in England so wretched an existence that it is no exaggeration to aver that he seeks death as a thing to be desired .
As he was accustomed to do in all cases of any consequence , D ’ Artagnan went straight to the residence of Athos .
You sent me a strange madman this morning !
“ Well , I know of ten such men. ” Mazarin made no reply ; he reflected .
This idea was one of vengeance to me , and I tasted it slowly in the night of my dungeon and the despair of my captivity .
In this case Milady would cross the garden and gain the village on foot .
Athos repeated to him the same question he had asked the first person he met .
Which ? ” “ Whichever of the three you like , I have no preference. ” “ And the rich caparison , is that mine , too ? ” “ Without doubt. ” “ You laugh , D ’ Artagnan. ” “ No , I have left off laughing , now that you speak French. ” “ What , those rich holsters , that velvet housing , that saddle studded with silver—are they all for me ? ” “ For you and nobody else , as the horse which paws the ground is mine , and the other horse , which is caracoling , belongs to Athos. ” “ _Peste ! _ They are three superb animals ! ” “ I am glad they please you. ” “ Why , it must have been the king who made you such a present. ” “ Certainly it was not the cardinal ; but don ’ t trouble yourself whence they come , think only that one of the three is your property. ” “ I choose that which the red-headed boy is leading. ” “ It is yours ! ” “ Good heaven !
I love her ; and I ask God and you how I can save her ? ” Monte Cristo uttered a cry which those only can conceive who have heard the roar of a wounded lion .
Another Queen in Want of Help .
“ Well , ” said he , “ was I mistaken ? ” “ She has answered you ! ” cried Franz .
“ The young man is here , ” said the valet de chambre in the same tone .
Aramis returned home , and Athos and D ’ Artagnan busied themselves about pledging the sapphire .
“ My lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ will lend his , which is of no use to him , to the Comte de la Fere. ” “ Willingly , ” said the cardinal ; “ I will even ask the count to keep it for my sake. ” “ I promise you , my lord , never to part with it , ” replied Athos .
However , amidst all the prisoner ’ s efforts to elude a systematic examination , Raoul had recognized his natural accent .
The next morning Danglars awoke late , though he went to bed so early ; he had not slept well for five or six nights , even if he had slept at all .
Peppino remained breathless .
D ’ Artagnan relates that on his first visit to M. de Tréville , captain of the king ’ s Musketeers , he met in the antechamber three young men , serving in the illustrious corps into which he was soliciting the honor of being received , bearing the names of Athos , Porthos , and Aramis .
It was then that he saw a horseman , as it were , detach himself from the wall and follow him at a little distance .
The prince kept his gaze fixed in the direction of the sound with the steadfastness of a bird of prey .
Compression is needed to explode gunpowder .
Aramis here ? ” cried Athos .
Was not Faria ’ s fate the better , after all—to solve the problem of life at its source , even at the risk of horrible suffering ?
D ’ Artagnan was in a dolorous situation which he had not foreseen .
In a moment , thanks to her habit of conversing with her grandfather , she understood that he asked for a key .
As it is no inconsiderable affair to spend the Carnival at Rome , especially when you have no great desire to sleep on the Piazza del Popolo , or the Campo Vaccino , they wrote to Signor Pastrini , the proprietor of the Hôtel de Londres , Piazza di Spagna , to reserve comfortable apartments for them .
As for me , I consider the union with Mademoiselle Danglars a most suitable one ; she will enrich you , and you will ennoble her. ” Albert shook his head , and looked thoughtful .
Be content ; I will depart. ” “ But you will not follow me ; you will not watch me ? ” “ I will return home instantly. ” “ Ah , I was quite sure you were a good and brave young man , ” said Mme .
No , no , I would rather die ! ” cried the queen , in whom the imperious blood of Spain and Austria began to rise .
Adieu , my lord. ” “ Adieu , my dear Rochefort. ” “ Ah , Monsieur Mazarin , Monsieur Mazarin , ” said Rochefort , leading off his curate , who had not found an opportunity of uttering a single word during the foregoing dialogue , “ you will see whether I am too old to be a man of action. ” It was half-past nine o ’ clock and the coadjutor required half an hour to go from the archbishop ’ s palace to the tower of St. Jacques de la Boucherie .
“ Sir , ” said d ’ Avrigny to Villefort , so loud that all might hear , “ poor Barrois has led too sedentary a life of late ; accustomed formerly to ride on horseback , or in the carriage , to the four corners of Europe , the monotonous walk around that armchair has killed him—his blood has thickened .
Valentine and Morrel were exchanging their adieux in the presence of Noirtier when a ring was heard at the door-bell .
During the six years that he had been imprisoned , what might he not have accomplished ?
The Tower of St. Jacques de la Boucherie .
You have a quick horse , a light tilbury , you are naturally as slippery as an eel ; if I had missed you tonight , I might not have had another chance. ” “ You see , I do not conceal myself. ” “ You are lucky ; I wish I could say as much , for I do conceal myself ; and then I was afraid you would not recognize me , but you did , ” added Caderousse with his unpleasant smile .
Do you bring me tidings of my guardian ? ” “ Have you not received any ? ” said D ’ Artagnan to the youth .
So he was called the queen ’ s invalid , with a pension of fifteen hundred francs .
You will have pity on me. ” “ Ah , if you speak in that way , ” said Athos , “ you will break my heart , and the tears will flow from my eyes as the wine flowed from the cask .
Give me the letter. ” “ How can you read ? ” asked Athos , “ it is as dark as a cold oven. ” “ Wait , ” said Bazin , striking a flint , and setting afire a twisted wax-light , with which he started the church candles .
“ Oh , is it you , dear friends ?
[ 9 ] ‘ Money and sanctity , Each in a moiety. ’ [ 10 ] Elisabeth de Rossan , Marquise de Ganges , was one of the famous women of the court of Louis XIV .
Then a low door was opened before him , and bending his head to avoid striking his forehead he entered a small room cut out of the rock .
Monte Cristo cast one rapid and curious glance round this sanctum ; it was the first time he had ever seen Mademoiselle d ’ Armilly , of whom he had heard much .
You have known me long enough , ” continued Albert , biting his lips convulsively , for he saw that Beauchamp ’ s anger was beginning to rise , — “ you have been my friend , and therefore sufficiently intimate with me to be aware that I am likely to maintain my resolution on this point. ” “ If I have been your friend , Morcerf , your present manner of speaking would almost lead me to forget that I ever bore that title .
See paragraph 1.E below .
“ Ah !
“ Oh , oh ! ” replied D ’ Artagnan , straining both at the same time his quick ear and his intelligent glance , “ it is the murmur of the populace in revolution. ” “ We must fly , ” said the queen .
“ It ’ s a piece of good fortune sent from Heaven , ” said Athos , evidently much relieved .
My clerks are honest men , who earn my fortune , whom I pay much below their deserts , if I may value them according to what they bring in ; therefore I shall not get into a passion with them ; those with whom I will be in a passion are those who eat my dinners , mount my horses , and exhaust my fortune. ” “ And pray who are the persons who exhaust your fortune ?
He had received a message from the prince , to whom he had hastened with Olivain the instant he had received it .
“ What a pity Mademoiselle de Villefort is dead !
Madame de Vernet was driven from me , Putange was exiled , Madame de Chevreuse fell into disgrace , and when you wished to come back as ambassador to France , the king himself—remember , my lord—the king himself opposed it. ” “ Yes , and France is about to pay for her king ’ s refusal with a war .
Bonacieux .
They told me the executioner of Bethune was here and wounded , when you uttered two piercing cries .
“ I am twenty-one years old , or rather I shall be in a few days , as I was born the night of the 27th of September , 1817. ” M. de Villefort , who was busy taking down some notes , raised his head at the mention of this date .
At this time Athos came up to D ’ Artagnan .
He accepted , therefore , with delight , an offer made to him by his friend the steward of the Duc de Grammont , to give him a substitute ; he also spoke of it to Monsieur de Chavigny , who promised that he would not oppose it in any way—that is , if he approved of the person proposed .
As nine o ’ clock sounded , D ’ Artagnan was at the Place Royale .
“ En route , Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” said the cardinal ; “ all goes well in this direction. ” D ’ Artagnan , in the meantime , had taken the head of his detachment without a word and with that ready and profound obedience which marks the character of an old soldier .
I do not understand you. ” “ So much the better , I have a ray of hope left ; listen. ” “ I am all attention , ” said Eugénie , looking so earnestly at her father that it was an effort for the latter to endure her unrelenting gaze .
I am a physiognomist , I assure you. ” D ’ Artagnan went out first , as had been agreed upon .
d ’ Épinay can not leave the drawing-room at present. ” “ It is at this moment , ” replied Barrois with the same firmness , “ that M. Noirtier , my master , wishes to speak on important subjects to M. Franz d ’ Épinay. ” “ Grandpapa Noirtier can speak now , then , ” said Edward , with his habitual quickness .
In a few minutes Valentine re-entered the garden alone .
I thought I had been deceived—had mistaken the spot .
What convent ?
They dragged us away by force .
“ Then , ” continued the host , “ I replied that as from the moment we seemed not likely to come to a good understanding with respect to payment , I hoped that he would have at least the kindness to grant the favor of his custom to my brother host of the Golden Eagle ; but Monsieur Porthos replied that , my house being the best , he should remain where he was .
Felton continued to descend .
Beauchamp Chapter 85 .
But then that is all the more reason why we should not abandon the august head so threatened. ” “ Athos , you are becoming mad. ” “ No , my friend , ” Athos gently replied , “ but De Winter sought us out in France and introduced us , Monsieur d ’ Herblay and myself , to Madame Henrietta .
In fact , at that moment a second neighing was borne to them on the night wind .
If you go out , do not go out alone ; when you eat , use every precaution .
When he reached the door a stream of people , who had been disappointed in not being able to get into the house and to make amends had collected to see him come out , stood on each side , as he passed , many among them glaring on him with threatening looks .
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions .
The other is , on the contrary , to all appearance a true nobleman ; but do you not fear to find him a bully ? ” “ I only fear one thing ; namely , to find a man who will not fight. ” “ Do not be alarmed , ” said Beauchamp ; “ he will meet you .
The little old man remained at the coach door ; the coachman took care of his horses , the lackey held the saddlehorses .
“ Yes , yes , I see him well enough , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The old father and Mercédès remained for some time apart , each absorbed in grief ; but at length the two poor victims of the same blow raised their eyes , and with a simultaneous burst of feeling rushed into each other ’ s arms .
Still further , De Wardes , whom he had treated so ill , was one of the tools of his Eminence ; and D ’ Artagnan knew that while his Eminence was terrible to his enemies , he was strongly attached to his friends .
Monsieur de Comminges , ” he said .
He shed the blood of Strafford ; that confirms what I said just now—blood will have blood .
If I stay in Paris I can not go to Rome ; if I became pope I could not continue to be prime minister ; and it is only by continuing prime minister that I can make Monsieur d ’ Artagnan a captain and Monsieur du Vallon a baron. ” “ True , ” said Aramis , “ so , as I am in a minority , I withdraw my proposition , so far as it relates to the voyage to Rome and monseigneur ’ s resignation. ” “ I am to remain minister , then ? ” said Mazarin .
_A propos_ , add one thing— ” “ What ? ” “ I saw some very pretty woods which almost touch the convent garden .
where are you ? ” murmured Coquenard , and he tried to smile .
“ You are strong among the strong , Mordaunt , ” he said ; “ and the Frenchmen , how did they behave ? ” “ Most fearlessly. ” “ Yes , yes , ” murmured Cromwell ; “ the French fight well ; and if my glass was good and I mistake not , they were foremost in the fight. ” “ They were , ” replied Mordaunt .
Take them away , Juxon ; their tears will deprive me of the courage to die. ” Juxon led them away , and this time the doors were left open .
After reading the letter , Villefort covered his face with his hands .
After all , ” continued D ’ Artagnan , “ there was certainly one with Aramis .
did I not see you the other day smile on the Duke of Orleans ?
“ At last we are off ! ” exclaimed Porthos .
As to the king , he made no demonstration of politeness , only stopping before the queen .
and can not women be dishonored by appearances ?
Look at Monsieur du Vallon , that faithful soul , that arm of steel , who for twenty years has awaited the word from your lips which will make him in rank what he is in sentiment and in courage .
He did not dare to write for fear of not being able—to such experienced eyes as those of Milady—to disguise his writing sufficiently .
Dantès closely and eagerly examined it ; he found it firm , solid , and compact enough to bear any weight .
She opened the drawer , and found a key ; and , understanding that was what he wanted , again watched his eyes , which turned toward an old secretaire which had been neglected for many years and was supposed to contain nothing but useless documents .
When that is over , you , sir , can return to Paris , while your wife passes the time of her mourning with her mother-in-law. ” “ As you please , sir , ” said Franz .
I waited a month , or rather I suffered for a month !
There is no one but myself can so execute them that one can not tell the new from the old. ” “ Therefore , my dear Mr. O ’ Reilly , you are my prisoner .
He has a free will , yet he fearlessly condemns .
“ You are the best companion that I know , D ’ Artagnan , ” he said , offering his hand to the Gascon ; “ and I am very happy in having found you again , my dear son. ” This was , as we have seen , the term which Athos applied to D ’ Artagnan in his more expansive moods .
You are really ill , and just now were so pale as you came into the room—— ” “ Was I pale , Albert ? ” “ Yes ; a pallor that suits you admirably , mother , but which did not the less alarm my father and myself. ” “ Did your father speak of it ? ” inquired Mercédès eagerly .
It signifies nothing whether you eat much or little—whether you have ten dishes or one—it is always the same price. ” “ What , still keeping up this silly jest ?
Their anxiety about their outfits had all disappeared , and each countenance only preserved the expression of its own secret disquiet—for behind all present happiness is concealed a fear for the future .
The result of these reflections was that D ’ Artagnan , without asking information of any kind , alighted , commended the horses to the care of his lackey , entered a small room destined to receive those who wished to be alone , and desired the host to bring him a bottle of his best wine and as good a breakfast as possible—a desire which further corroborated the high opinion the innkeeper had formed of the traveler at first sight .
“ They are beating the general alarm. ” The four friends listened , and the sound of the drum plainly reached them .
The Palikares , who were prostrated at my father ’ s feet , now sprang up and fired , and the room was filled with fire and smoke .
For a long time I had these words whispered in my ears , and I chose the latter ; at any rate , it is a French word .
“ Devil take the vain fellow , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Yes ; I am a man of honor , ” said D ’ Artagnan , determined to come to an end , “ and since your love is mine , and I am satisfied I possess it—for I do possess it , do I not ? ” “ Entirely ; go on. ” “ Well , I feel as if transformed—a confession weighs on my mind. ” “ A confession ! ” “ If I had the least doubt of your love I would not make it , but you love me , my beautiful mistress , do you not ? ” “ Without doubt. ” “ Then if through excess of love I have rendered myself culpable toward you , you will pardon me ? ” “ Perhaps. ” D ’ Artagnan tried with his sweetest smile to touch his lips to Milady ’ s , but she evaded him .
“ ’ Tis he !
“ Besides , ” said the abbé , “ God is merciful to all , as he has been to you ; he is first a father , then a judge. ” “ Do you then believe in God ? ” said Caderousse .
He now calls himself the Count of Morcerf , and ranks among the peers. ” Thus the terrible secret , which Beauchamp had so generously destroyed , appeared again like an armed phantom ; and another paper , deriving its information from some malicious source , had published two days after Albert ’ s departure for Normandy the few lines which had rendered the unfortunate young man almost crazy .
“ You have been here a very long time , John , ” said he .
Surely , had not such been the case , he would not have perished by so dreadful a death. ” “ Why , he was not altogether forsaken , ” continued Caderousse , “ for Mercédès the Catalan and Monsieur Morrel were very kind to him ; but somehow the poor old man had contracted a profound hatred for Fernand—the very person , ” added Caderousse with a bitter smile , “ that you named just now as being one of Dantès ’ faithful and attached friends. ” “ And was he not so ? ” asked the abbé .
“ Charlotte Backson , Comtesse de la Fère , Milady de Winter , ” said he , “ your crimes have wearied men on earth and God in heaven .
The abbé smiled .
“ What is the matter , if you please ? ” “ Sir , ” replied Mordaunt , “ I have ordered the two prisoners we made this morning to be conducted to my lodging. ” “ Wherefore , sir ?
One opposite to me , the other with his back to me. ” “ Good .
“ Hope ! ” faintly murmured Fernand , but the word seemed to die away on his pale agitated lips , and a convulsive spasm passed over his countenance .
“ Yes , madame ; and it was an excellent idea of yours to open the doors and the blinds. ” As he ceased speaking , the count felt the hand of Mercédès tremble .
It is too late .
Edmond started .
“ These three Musketeers shall follow us , ” said he , in an undertone .
But that same night , he found himself the possessor of a fine house , situated on the Boulevard de la Madeleine , and an income of 50,000 livres .
“ It was subsequently to these dreadful events that I waited on your excellency , to whom it would have been folly to have mentioned Benedetto , since all trace of him seemed entirely lost ; or of my sister , since she was dead. ” “ And in what light did you view the occurrence ? ” inquired Monte Cristo .
“ I am not without a good reason for my conduct , ” replied the banker .
I consult them when doubtful , and if I ever do any good , it is due to their beneficent counsels .
At this moment the garden was only occupied by about ten servants , who had just received orders from their mistress to prepare the supper , the serenity of the weather continuing to increase .
What an idea !
On leaving Paris , Athos and Aramis well knew that they would be encountering great danger ; but we know that for men like these there could be no question of danger .
For a hundred paces he maintained the speed at which he started ; but when out of sight he turned his horse to the right , made a circuit , and came back within twenty paces of a high hedge to watch the passage of the little troop .
A shade of melancholy gravity overspread his countenance , which was not natural to him .
I am going to prove to you that I have not. ” “ Good , ” thought the Gascon , “ this is a promising beginning. ” “ Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , ” he resumed , “ do you wish to become a captain ? ” “ Yes , my lord. ” “ And your friend still longs to be made a baron ? ” “ At this very moment , my lord , he no doubt dreams that he is one already. ” “ Then , ” said Mazarin , taking from his portfolio the letter which he had already shown D ’ Artagnan , “ take this dispatch and carry it to England. ” D ’ Artagnan looked at the envelope ; there was no address on it .
What to me were all the treasures in the world , or all the kings of the earth !
On the following morning at five o ’ clock D ’ Artagnan arose , and descending to the kitchen without help , asked , among other ingredients the list of which has not come down to us , for some oil , some wine , and some rosemary , and with his mother ’ s recipe in his hand composed a balsam , with which he anointed his numerous wounds , replacing his bandages himself , and positively refusing the assistance of any doctor , D ’ Artagnan walked about that same evening , and was almost cured by the morrow .
Light the candles in my apartment , if you please. ” The innkeeper gave orders to a servant to go before Franz with a light .
He commanded with it ; it was the medium through which his thanks were conveyed .
Those who had kept their shares , or bought those of Danglars , looked upon themselves as ruined , and passed a very bad night .
_ “ Pardieu ! ” _ said Villefort , “ he is a noble fellow .
“ Fine sport ! ” “ Are you still bent on departure , Athos ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
The moon , which was partially obscured by heavy clouds , now and then lit up the muskets of the sentinels , or silvered the walls , the roofs , and the spires of the town that Charles I. had just surrendered to the parliamentary troops , whilst Oxford and Newark still held out for him in the hopes of coming to some arrangement .
In fact , the sack of La Rochelle , and the assassination of three of four thousand Huguenots who allowed themselves to be killed , would resemble too closely , in 1628 , the massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1572 ; and then , above all this , this extreme measure , which was not at all repugnant to the king , good Catholic as he was , always fell before this argument of the besieging generals—La Rochelle is impregnable except to famine .
On his first inquiry he was told , with the impertinence peculiar to hired hackney-coachmen and innkeepers with their houses full , that there was no room for him at the Hôtel de Londres .
“ Come , ” he said , “ it is only a veiled lady , some foreign princess , perhaps the mother of Cavalcanti .
“ Certainly .
I have it still ! ” 50235m The carriage entered by the Porta del Popolo , turned to the left , and stopped at the Hôtel d ’ Espagne .
This lad , for he was scarcely a man , —simple , natural , eloquent with that eloquence of the heart never found when sought for ; full of affection for everybody , because he was happy , and because happiness renders even the wicked good—extended his affection even to his judge , spite of Villefort ’ s severe look and stern accent .
I have resolved to fly with you , not a word—be ready .
He tore his hair .
“ Suppose we wait a while , and see what comes of it , ” said he , casting a bewildered look on his companion .
You seem a worthy young man ; I will depart from the strict line of my duty to aid you in discovering the author of this accusation .
“ Your feet , too , ” said Grimaud .
It was necessary that D ’ Artagnan should find alone the staircase and the little chamber .
Friquet , whose eye , ever on the alert , could alone have discovered them , had gone to devour his apricots upon the entablature of a house in the square of Notre Dame .
for ever and ever ! ” cried the youth ; “ oh !
Parry bent over his master ’ s hand and kissed it respectfully .
This morning I ventured to run along the gutters and—— ” “ Well , ” interrupted D ’ Artagnan , “ I am delighted that De Rochefort is free , but as for thee , if thou shouldst fall into the hands of the king ’ s servants they will hang thee without mercy .
D ’ Artagnan drew his sword , and sprang toward the door .
Thus did Athos and Aramis make their appearance in the ante-chamber , where about a dozen noblemen were collected in waiting .
“ Wait , ” said Valentine ; and , turning to her grandfather , she repeated , “ Wa—We—Wi—— ” The old man stopped her at the last syllable .
“ But I think I have it , ” said Athos .
_Our friend_ will see you soon , and he will only see you to release you from that imprisonment in which your safety required you should be concealed .
Coquenard .
I had such a delightful dream .
You know the rest. ” Milady knew that Lord de Winter lied , and she was the more alarmed .
I have an inventive mind ; before that is expired some idea will occur to me .
In consequence I embarked for Oran , and went from thence to Constantine , where I arrived just in time to witness the raising of the siege .
Did you ever see her furious ? ” “ No , ” said Athos .
You are come too late—you are come to see me die .
“ For life , ” replied Porthos , in the same manner .
What do you think , D ’ Artagnan ? ” said Athos .
Either I misunderstand you or you are very shameless ! ” “ You only speak thus because you are overheard , ” coolly replied Milady ; “ and you wish to interest your jailers and your hangmen against me. ” “ My jailers and my hangmen !
The cardinal writes better than I thought .
I know you are going to leave the Rue du Helder without taking anything with you .
At the moment when she is struggling in the convulsions of death , a vulture is flying by ( there are a good many vultures in Adelmonte ’ s country ) ; this bird darts on the dead fowl , and carries it away to a rock , where it dines off its prey .
for you have here at least three men who will not betray you .
She had married a younger brother of the family , who had left her a widow with one child .
The queen might be as much injured by too much reticence as by too much confidence ; and—let us admit it—the involuntary sentiment which she felt for her young protector decided her to speak .
The safety of a cavalier often depends on the prompt obedience of his horse .
Eleven o ’ clock had struck .
Bonacieux , holding out her hand to him , and placing the other upon the knocker of a little door almost hidden in the wall .
He instantly retired , from a feeling of respectful delicacy ; it was , however , evident that the cardinal was recognized by both Comminges and the other officers on horseback .
“ Revenge yourself , then , Edmond , ” cried the poor mother ; “ but let your vengeance fall on the culprits , —on him , on me , but not on my son ! ” “ It is written in the good book , ” said Monte Cristo , “ that the sins of the fathers shall fall upon their children to the third and fourth generation .
Milady could not at all comprehend the silence of the Comte de Wardes , and she ordered Kitty to come at nine o ’ clock in the morning to take a third letter .
D ’ Artagnan , as we have said , had become more tranquil , as always happens after a past danger , particularly when the danger seems to have vanished .
Don ’ t you think so , D ’ Artagnan ? ” “ I think so , indeed , ” cried he .
What should I care for either riches or poverty , if my Valentine was near me , and I felt certain that no one could deprive me of her ?
Although drawn downwards by the heavy weight which hastened his rapid descent , it seemed to him as if the fall lasted for a century .
This force was therefore wholly insufficient , and from time to time the line was broken through by the people and was formed again with difficulty .
You are too charming , ” said D ’ Artagnan , sorrowfully ; “ and you abuse my love. ” “ No , I use your generosity , that ’ s all .
“ Fourteen years ! ” he muttered .
Take care , for I warn you that the first man that comes within the length of my sword—and my sword is long—I rip him up. ” The chieftain of the party drew near .
“ ‘ Princes must be knocked on the head. ’ ” “ I remember it , ” said Athos .
What say you , Franz ? ” “ Oh , I agree with you ; the windows in the Palazzo Rospoli alone decided me. ” The truth was , that the mention of two places in the Palazzo Rospoli had recalled to Franz the conversation he had overheard the preceding evening in the ruins of the Colosseum between the mysterious unknown and the Transteverin , in which the stranger in the cloak had undertaken to obtain the freedom of a condemned criminal ; and if this muffled-up individual proved ( as Franz felt sure he would ) the same as the person he had just seen in the Teatro Argentina , then he should be able to establish his identity , and also to prosecute his researches respecting him with perfect facility and freedom .
we arrived four or five days ago from the Vendomois , as you know , and we are going to give Mazarin something to do .
“ ’ Tis true , ” he said ; “ but where can I get a chisel to take the planks out , a gimlet to pierce the cask ? ” “ Trousers , ” said Grimaud , still squaring his accounts .
The first-named malefactor will be _mazzolato_ , the second culprit _decapitato_ .
The lane was still deserted , and the same calm soft light shone through the window .
He placed the young girl again on the chair , —her lips were scarcely discernible , they were so pale and white , as well as her whole face , —and remained motionless , looking at Noirtier , who appeared to anticipate and commend all he did .
The lantern was placed on the ground , the two adversaries took their stations , and the duel began .
of Bethune ! —not been there , I would have cut off the head of that infamous being without thinking of it , or even after thinking of it .
However , I shall have no occasion to work , for the little sum of money buried by you , and which I found in the place you mentioned , will be sufficient to maintain me .
Villefort smiled within himself , for he felt his increased importance .
Monte Cristo saw nothing but the shadow , which no one else observed .
bravo !
The cardinal therefore rose to open it .
Of the interval passed , nothing remains in the memory but a vague mist in which a thousand confused images of trees , mountains , and landscapes are lost .
Inquiry was made , and it was ascertained that , by a strange coincidence , this carriage contained the corpse of the Marquis de Saint-Méran , and that those who had come thinking to attend one funeral would follow two .
Well , sir , what you tell me is impossible .
This chance did , then , for him at once more than he would have dared to ask of Providence .
“ Yes , ” said Athos , “ it reminds me of a family jewel. ” “ It is beautiful , is it not ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
But that reminds me that I must ask your leave of absence for some days. ” “ To get married ? ” “ Yes , first , and then to go to Paris. ” “ Very good ; have what time you require , Dantès .
D ’ Artagnan recognized the cardinal .
“ Still , ” replied Porthos .
“ When I see her majesty embarrassed , I shall conduct her to Rueil , make her enter the orangery and show her a certain spring which turns a box. ” “ Enough , sir , ” muttered the cardinal , “ you have said enough ; where is the treaty ? ” “ Here it is , ” replied Aramis .
“ Ah , sir !
There he ascertained that the Bracieux estate was four leagues distant , but that Porthos was not at Bracieux .
La Ramee went up to him and looked over his shoulder to see what sort of a book it was that had so singular an influence over the prisoner as to make him put off taking his dinner .
Allow me , then , to avoid dishonor by death ; let me take refuge in martyrdom .
A bright spot burned in either cheek , her respiration was short and difficult , and her pulse beat with feverish excitement .
With forty-five thousand francs we can live like princesses for two years , and comfortably for four ; but before six months—you with your music , and I with my voice—we shall double our capital .
Their spirits live in me .
“ Yes , ” said he .
There only they explained to them the matter in hand .
This might be a kind remembrance of Monsieur the Cardinal .
Planchet mounted by the window and installed himself across the doorway , while Grimaud went and shut himself up in the stable , undertaking that by five o ’ clock in the morning he and the four horses should be ready .
He told me to watch you. ” “ And why so ?
The memory of Richelieu annihilates me .
The young man pressed his lips on the same spot , on the old man ’ s forehead , where Valentine ’ s had been .
The diminutive Abbé Scarron , who , however , was an abbé only because he owned an abbey , and not because he was in orders , had formerly been one of the gayest prebendaries in the town of Mans , which he inhabited .
Do you think of him ? ” “ Yes , madame , often and often , but pazienza , as we say in Italy ; next , after Monsieur de Condé , comes the Duke of Orleans. ” “ What are you saying ?
what art thou about ?
This crisis past , I endeavored to catch your eye , but could not .
Dantès let go of the timber , which he now thought to be useless , and swam vigorously to meet them .
“ Oh , ” said he , “ that is life to me ; more , more ! ” “ Two drops more would kill you , ” replied the abbé .
It is almost needless to say that the flirtation between Albert and the fair peasant continued all day .
It was Captain Leclere who gave orders for this delay. ” “ Talking of Captain Leclere , has not Dantès given you a letter from him ? ” “ To me ? —no—was there one ? ” “ I believe that , besides the packet , Captain Leclere confided a letter to his care. ” “ Of what packet are you speaking , Danglars ? ” “ Why , that which Dantès left at Porto-Ferrajo. ” “ How do you know he had a packet to leave at Porto-Ferrajo ? ” Danglars turned very red .
“ Hark , ” said she , “ we have been overheard !
All is over. ” “ But , ” said Athos , “ who is the wretch that has dared to raise his hand against his king ? ” “ An amateur headsman , ” replied Aramis , “ who however , does not handle the axe amiss. ” “ Did you not see his face ? ” asked Athos .
“ ‘ Ah ! ’ cried the cardinal , ‘ I thought you were a Gascon , my friend ? ’ “ ‘ I am a Gascon , ’ said I , ‘ only when I succeed. ’ The answer pleased him and he laughed .
Franz and Debray exchanged some words in a whisper , and Morrel , rejoiced at this unexpected incident , went to fetch the count , who was walking in a retired path with Emmanuel .
Milady uttered a frightful shriek , and dragged herself along several paces upon her knees toward her judges .
At half-past one they descended , the coachman and footman had put on their livery over their disguises , which gave them a more ridiculous appearance than ever , and which gained them the applause of Franz and Albert .
What more could the most devoted lover desire ? ” Then he murmured the words of the English poet , “ ‘ Frailty , thy name is woman. ’ ” “ Six months afterwards , ” continued Caderousse , “ the marriage took place in the church of Accoules. ” “ The very church in which she was to have married Edmond , ” murmured the priest ; “ there was only a change of bridegrooms. ” “ Well , Mercédès was married , ” proceeded Caderousse ; “ but although in the eyes of the world she appeared calm , she nearly fainted as she passed La Réserve , where , eighteen months before , the betrothal had been celebrated with him whom she might have known she still loved , had she looked to the bottom of her heart .
Everyone on board remained motionless for half an hour , when the same luminous track was again observed , and the swimmer was soon on board .
You may , therefore , comprehend , that being of no country , asking no protection from any government , acknowledging no man as my brother , not one of the scruples that arrest the powerful , or the obstacles which paralyze the weak , paralyzes or arrests me .
I devoted three years of my life to reading and studying these one hundred and fifty volumes , till I knew them nearly by heart ; so that since I have been in prison , a very slight effort of memory has enabled me to recall their contents as readily as though the pages were open before me .
Out of the hundred and sixty-three members designated there were only seventy-three present , for the rest , fearful of taking part in such an act , had remained away .
“ It is magnificent , ” continued Beauchamp , “ to be able to exercise so much self-control ! ” “ Assuredly ; as for me , I should have been incapable of it , ” said Château-Renaud , with most significant coolness .
The servant then approached Athos and said , hesitatingly : “ Monsieur le vicomte has no sword. ” “ ’ Tis well , ” said Athos , “ I will take care of that. ” They went downstairs , Raoul looking every now and then at the count to see if the moment of farewell was at hand , but Athos was silent .
“ One morning my father sent for us ; my mother had been crying all the night , and was very wretched ; we found the pasha calm , but paler than usual .
The woman ’ s lips seemed to move , as though she were talking ; but because she merely spoke in an undertone , or my senses were dulled by sleep , I did not catch a word she uttered .
“ Yes , the rolling of a carriage. ” “ It is the one my brother sends for us. ” “ Oh , my God ! ” “ Come , come !
He then asked with whom he played .
The old man , who had preserved all his usual coolness , made a sign to him to do so .
The prince , who had a great repugnance to treat with such an ill-bred fellow , made out a list , against the grain , and sent it .
Debray did not defend himself very warmly , for the idea had sometimes crossed his mind ; still , when he recollected the independent , proud spirit of Eugénie , he positively rejected it as utterly impossible , though the same thought again continually recurred and found a resting-place in his heart .
Let us consider first the ancient rights .
Deceived by this intelligence he had concentrated his forces between Vieille-Chapelle and La Venthie ; and after a reconnoissance along the entire line , in company with Marshal de Grammont , he had returned and seated himself before a table , with his officers around him .
Aramis had killed one of his adversaries , but the other pressed him warmly .
But the abbess , on her part , maintained a reserve still more prudent , contenting herself with making a profound inclination of the head every time the fair traveler pronounced the name of his Eminence .
I hear no balls whistle , and I see nobody ! ” “ They are firing at the corpses , ” replied Athos .
“ Good ! ” Mazarin was in his study , working at a list of pensions and benefices , of which he was trying to reduce the number .
Anne of Austria at the Age of Forty-six .
But Dantès can not remain forever in prison , and one day or other he will leave it , and the day when he comes out , woe betide him who was the cause of his incarceration ! ” “ Oh , I should wish nothing better than that he would come and seek a quarrel with me. ” “ Yes , and Mercédès !
All at once great cries resounded in the pavilion , and a woman came to the window , and opened it , as if to throw herself out of it ; but as soon as she perceived the other two men , she fell back and they went into the chamber .
Now , since D ’ Artagnan did not constitute a body of horsemen , since he was alone , since he was not going away from Rueil and was going to Saint Germain , no one paid any attention to him and his journey was not obstructed in any way .
“ Not so bad yet , ” replied Athos ; “ for by this time she must have quit the shores of France. ” D ’ Artagnan breathed again .
“ Well , ” said the queen , “ it has been refused. ” The two friends exchanged a smile of contempt .
all !
The rest of the floor was hired by a very rich gentleman who was supposed to be a Sicilian or Maltese ; but the host was unable to decide to which of the two nations the traveller belonged .
The young man was more pale than usual , and his eyes , reddened by want of sleep , denoted that he had passed a feverish night .
“ Stay , ” said Monte Cristo , “ here , in this very spot ” ( and he stamped upon the ground ) , “ I had the earth dug up and fresh mould put in , to refresh these old trees ; well , my man , digging , found a box , or rather , the iron-work of a box , in the midst of which was the skeleton of a newly born infant. ” 30225m Monte Cristo felt the arm of Madame Danglars stiffen , while that of Villefort trembled .
The table at which the Puritan officers were seated was round , and whether by chance or coarse intention , Harrison sat with his back to the king .
He would not , however , yield immediately to the young man ’ s request , but made a few conscientious objections .
“ Very well—— ” “ Until the moment when the Comte de la Fere , ” resumed Raoul , “ said , ‘ Come , Bragelonne , draw your sword ; ’ then only I rushed upon the reptile and cut it in two , just at the moment when it was rising on its tail and hissing , ere it sprang upon me .
_Morbleu ! _ I won ’ t be their dupe , I will answer for it .
To a Parisian accustomed to silken curtains , walls hung with velvet drapery , and the soft perfume of burning wood , the white smoke of which diffuses itself in graceful curves around the room , the appearance of the whitewashed cell which greeted his eyes on awakening seemed like the continuation of some disagreeable dream .
Fernand , kneeling by her side , took her hand , and covered it with kisses that Mercédès did not even feel .
Aramis , less self-controlled , fumbled continually with his hidden poniard .
He laid claim to that honor as captain of the royal guards. ” “ I am aware of that , and I have told him a hundred times that he was wrong .
Monte Cristo allowed a short time to elapse , and then said : “ It is singular , baron , but the same idea came across me the first time I came here ; it looked so gloomy I should never have bought it if my steward had not taken the matter into his own hands .
You must take a carriage and an escort , and guard the prisoner with the greatest care. ” D ’ Artagnan took the letter , touched his hat with his hand , turned round upon his heel like a drill-sergeant , and a moment afterward was heard , in his dry and monotonous tone , commanding “ Four men and an escort , a carriage and a horse. ” Five minutes afterward the wheels of the carriage and the horses ’ shoes were heard resounding on the pavement of the courtyard .
At length she murmured , satisfied with herself , “ Come , nothing is lost ; I am still beautiful. ” It was then nearly eight o ’ clock in the evening .
Athos and Aramis have played a game with me which alarms me .
“ Chevalier , ” said the king , when the door was closed , “ I believe you are right and that this man only came here with evil intentions .
It is because , at your theatres , by what at least I could judge by reading the pieces they play , they see persons swallow the contents of a phial , or suck the button of a ring , and fall dead instantly .
Well , Monsieur Laporte placed her near her Majesty in order that our poor queen might at least have someone in whom she could place confidence , abandoned as she is by the king , watched as she is by the cardinal , betrayed as she is by everybody. ” “ Ah , ah !
Here they found only one inn , in which was consumed a liqueur which preserves its reputation to our time and which is still made in that town .
Nevertheless , it is necessary that my will should be respected in my family , and that the folly of an old man and the caprice of a child should not be allowed to overturn a project which I have entertained for so many years .
We therefore represent six fighting men ; if we should meet a little troop of enemies , equal or even superior in number to our own , shall we charge them , Raoul ? ” “ Certainly , sir , ” replied the viscount .
At first they appeared like black specks , and now they looked like birds skimming the surface of the waves .
Grimaud replied by another sign that he understood perfectly , and set off .
“ Follow the culprit ’ s steps ; he first kills M. de Saint-Méran—— ” “ Oh , doctor ! ” “ I would swear to it ; what I heard of his symptoms agrees too well with what I have seen in the other cases. ” Villefort ceased to contend ; he only groaned .
Never mind , ” said Milady , writing the name on half a sheet of paper ; “ I will compromise myself. ” “ Well , ” said Rochefort , taking the paper from Milady , folding it , and placing it in the lining of his hat , “ you may be easy .
The Two Prisoners A year after Louis XVIII. ’ s restoration , a visit was made by the inspector-general of prisons .
He was petted , tended , cured ; and one fine morning , in better health than ever before , he set out for France .
I had a similar attack the year previous to my imprisonment .
Bonacieux .
Now , in order not to presume on this , and also to be beforehand with them , I have , if agreeable to you , thought of inviting M. and Madame Danglars , and M. and Madame de Villefort , to my country-house at Auteuil .
If we are attacked , we will defend ourselves ; if we are tried , we will stoutly maintain that we were only anxious to dip ourselves a certain number of times in the sea .
But when I added to the gun an English cutlass with which I had shivered his highness ’ s yataghan to pieces , the Bey yielded , and agreed to forgive the hand and head , but on condition that the poor fellow never again set foot in Tunis .
You are not angry with me ? ” “ Not the least in the world. ” “ Till then , then ? ” “ Till then. ” Bonacieux kissed his wife ’ s hand , and set off at a quick pace .
Mazarin , according to his custom , was thinking much and saying little .
Rochefort bent low .
“ Glad ! ” he cried ; “ I should be more than glad !
“ What ? ” said Monte Cristo .
I said I looked upon it as a sacrilegious profanation to reward treachery , perhaps crime. ” “ Remember , ” answered the abbé calmly , as he replaced the jewel and its case in the pocket of his cassock , “ it is your fault , not mine , that I do so .
If these five men give themselves up we gag them ; if they resist , we kill them .
What to do ? ” “ There would be a very simple means , very natural— ” “ Tell me what ! ” “ To wait , concealed in the neighborhood , and assure yourself who are the men who come to ask for you. ” “ But where can I wait ? ” “ Oh , there is no difficulty in that .
“ But what redoubles my sorrow , ” continued the young girl , as if this feeling was to receive its immediate punishment , “ is that the poor old lady , on her death-bed , requested that the marriage might take place as soon as possible ; she also , thinking to protect me , was acting against me. ” “ Hark ! ” said Morrel .
We can watch the skipper. ” “ And if he doesn ’ t go straight I will crush him , that ’ s all. ” “ Well said , Porthos , ” replied D ’ Artagnan .
I won ’ t have Dantès killed—I won ’ t ! ” “ And who has said a word about killing him , muddlehead ? ” replied Danglars .
Then she knew that he was one of the friends of M. de Tréville , and consequently , that he belonged body and soul to the king ; which would make him lose a part of his advantage , since when known to Milady as he knew her , he played only an equal game with her .
“ Without doubt ; Aramis is one of my best friends. ” “ Aramis !
The young people felt a mutual esteem ; but the queen , who at first sanctioned their affection , changed her mind , and Monsieur , the Duc d ’ Orleans , who had encouraged the familiarity between them , has forbidden his daughter to think any more about the union .
Dantès spoke for the sake of hearing his own voice ; he had tried to speak when alone , but the sound of his voice terrified him .
Mouston , ” cried Porthos .
“ ‘ Cucumetto had violated thy daughter , ’ said the bandit ; ‘ I loved her , therefore I slew her ; for she would have served as the sport of the whole band. ’ The old man spoke not , and grew pale as death .
Will your eminence deign to open the door which leads to the count ’ s room , and in ten minutes all will be settled. ” Mazarin started .
I obeyed my love ; and have I not been richly paid for that obedience ?
Coquenard was not less affected by it on her part , for she added , “ My cousin will not return if he finds that we do not treat him kindly ; but otherwise he has so little time to pass in Paris , and consequently to spare to us , that we must entreat him to give us every instant he can call his own previous to his departure. ” “ Oh , my legs , my poor legs !
On what was D ’ Artagnan thinking , that he strayed thus from his path , gazing at the stars of heaven , and sometimes sighing , sometimes smiling ?
“ Still , then , I am a prisoner , ” said Milady , looking around her , and bringing back her eyes with a most gracious smile to the young officer ; “ but I feel assured it will not be for long , ” added she .
On seeing the prince they hastened to meet him .
Come then , and take a turn with me and I will explain. ” The hostess , who knew D ’ Artagnan ’ s skill with the sword , began to weep and tear her hair .
Have you gone mad , my dear friend ? ” “ What is the matter ? ” returned D ’ Artagnan ; “ we are saved ! ” “ I don ’ t see that at all , ” answered Porthos .
I have not seen you , consequently I know nothing of your dinner. ” “ How foolish you are !
Noirtier made a sign that it did .
“ Do you know , my dear Villefort , ” cried the Comte de Salvieux , “ that is exactly what I myself said the other day at the Tuileries , when questioned by his majesty ’ s principal chamberlain touching the singularity of an alliance between the son of a Girondin and the daughter of an officer of the Duc de Condé ; and I assure you he seemed fully to comprehend that this mode of reconciling political differences was based upon sound and excellent principles .
Whole days have I passed in these Titanic efforts , considering my labor well repaid if , by night-time I had contrived to carry away a square inch of this hard-bound cement , changed by ages into a substance unyielding as the stones themselves ; then to conceal the mass of earth and rubbish I dug up , I was compelled to break through a staircase , and throw the fruits of my labor into the hollow part of it ; but the well is now so completely choked up , that I scarcely think it would be possible to add another handful of dust without leading to discovery .
“ And her mother , Madame de Saint-Remy , have they yet told her of it ? ” “ No , sir , Madame de Saint-Remy is at Blois with the Duchess of Orleans .
Barrois was now showing signs of returning consciousness .
“ I dragged myself toward the bed , to seek the only defense I had left—my saving knife ; but I could not reach the bolster .
Despite these efforts , Project Gutenberg™ electronic works , and the medium on which they may be stored , may contain “ Defects , ” such as , but not limited to , incomplete , inaccurate or corrupt data , transcription errors , a copyright or other intellectual property infringement , a defective or damaged disk or other medium , a computer virus , or computer codes that damage or can not be read by your equipment .
“ No less , ” said Athos , as pale as a corpse .
_Ma foi_ , I beg your pardon , but as I have but one son , and it is the first time I have ever thought of marrying him , I am still serving my apprenticeship , you know ; come , I will reform. ” And Morcerf with a forced smile arose , and , making a low bow to M. Danglars , said : “ Baron , I have the honor of asking of you the hand of Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars for my son , the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf. ” But Danglars , instead of receiving this address in the favorable manner which Morcerf had expected , knit his brow , and without inviting the count , who was still standing , to take a seat , he said : “ Monsieur , it will be necessary to reflect before I give you an answer. ” “ To reflect ? ” said Morcerf , more and more astonished ; “ have you not had enough time for reflection during the eight years which have elapsed since this marriage was first discussed between us ? ” “ Count , ” said the banker , “ things are constantly occurring in the world to induce us to lay aside our most established opinions , or at all events to cause us to remodel them according to the change of circumstances , which may have placed affairs in a totally different light to that in which we at first viewed them. ” “ I do not understand you , baron , ” said Morcerf .
“ My dear fellow , ” said Debray , “ you have come in the nick of time .
It was the Duc de Beaufort , who was coming from the Vendomois and whom the coadjutor was showing to the Parisians , intoxicated with joy .
A tent was erected for them near that of the marshal .
Chapter XLII .
At length , after occupying about an hour in these preparations , he opened the door of the room in which the vicomte slept , and entered .
Whilst this terrible scene was passing at Lord de Winter ’ s , Athos , seated near his window , his elbow on the table and his head supported on his hand , was listening intently to Raoul ’ s account of the adventures he met with on his journey and the details of the battle .
They set out ; after a run of two leagues , Mousqueton ’ s horse sank .
“ ‘ Then you shall not leave this place , ’ said he .
I carried the infection of crime with me , and she has caught it as she would the typhus fever , the cholera , the plague !
Everything was in readiness .
• You provide , in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3 , a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy , if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work .
He even told me he had not the slightest doubt that my father would give me the capital instead of the interest of my property .
“ I promised you a letter for the director of the Academy .
The little troop , without looking behind them or exchanging a word , fled at a rapid gallop , fording a little stream , of which none of them knew the name , and leaving on their left a town which Athos declared to be Durham .
This man evidently possesses the power of influencing events , both as regards men and things .
“ Well , the fact is , Morrel , I was thinking that I too am weary of life , and since an opportunity presents itself—— ” “ Stay ! ” said the young man .
“ Come , ” he said , “ you have me in a snare , gentlemen .
Since when , I wonder , in the Musketeers , did they grant men leave of absence without their asking for it ? ” “ Since , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ they have friends who ask it for them. ” “ Ah , ah ! ” said Porthos , “ it appears there ’ s something fresh here. ” “ Yes , we are going— ” said Aramis .
I kept in the background , as you wished , and waited , not for the decision of your heart or my own , but hoping that Providence would graciously interpose in our behalf , and order events in our favor .
With a single glance the prince took in the extent of country that lay before him , from Lens as far as Vimy .
Could we send anyone to Paris without its being known in the camp ?
“ Have you any money ? ” D ’ Artagnan tapped the bag he had in his pocket .
“ D ’ Artagnan , let me confess to you what I ’ ve been thinking about during the whole of my drive , as I looked out upon the parties of citizens who perpetually crossed our path and looked at you and your four men with fiery eyes. ” “ Speak out , ” answered D ’ Artagnan .
The young men rode up to the wounded man to announce that they were followed by the priest .
The young man appeared on the threshold of the minister ’ s closet , in one hand holding his hat , in the other the letter .
“ Yes , monseigneur , enemies against whom you owe me all your support , for I made them by serving your Eminence. ” “ Who are they ? ” replied the duke .
The Hand of God Caderousse continued to call piteously , “ Help , reverend sir , help ! ” “ What is the matter ? ” asked Monte Cristo .
“ A bad reason , ” replied Danglars , who reckoned on conciliating his keeper ; “ but I am content .
They sat silent and dejected .
“ Yellow boys ? ” said Caderousse ; “ no , I thank you. ” “ Oh , you despise them. ” “ On the contrary , I esteem them , but will not have them. ” “ You can change them , idiot ; gold is worth five sous. ” “ Exactly ; and he who changes them will follow friend Caderousse , lay hands on him , and demand what farmers pay him their rent in gold .
At the first announcement of peace Madame de Chevreuse frowned , and in spite of all the logic of Athos to show her that a prolonged war would have been impracticable , contended in favor of hostilities .
“ Nothing , nothing , ” replied the priest ; “ go on. ” “ It was Danglars who wrote the denunciation with his left hand , that his writing might not be recognized , and Fernand who put it in the post. ” “ But , ” exclaimed the abbé suddenly , “ you were there yourself. ” “ I ! ” said Caderousse , astonished ; “ who told you I was there ? ” The abbé saw he had overshot the mark , and he added quickly , — “ No one ; but in order to have known everything so well , you must have been an eye-witness. ” “ True , true ! ” said Caderousse in a choking voice , “ I was there. ” “ And did you not remonstrate against such infamy ? ” asked the abbé ; “ if not , you were an accomplice. ” “ Sir , ” replied Caderousse , “ they had made me drink to such an excess that I nearly lost all perception .
Is she not free to love whomsoever she will ? ” “ Oh , if you take it in that sense , ” said Caderousse , “ it is another thing .
Her elbows were placed upon a mean table , and she leaned her head upon her two hands , which were white as ivory .
“ Alone ? ” asked D ’ Artagnan .
“ Now , if you have them. ” Andrea took five-and-twenty louis from his pocket .
Pray continue. ” “ Well , then , listen .
In the clover-fields beyond the chestnut-trees , a lark was mounting up to heaven , while pouring out her clear morning song .
He beat a retreat toward the market , but there he met Planchet with his halberdiers ; their halberds were leveled at him threateningly .
I will therefore proceed .
Do as you like with your own , but do not fill or empty mine .
“ I am Monsieur d ’ Artagnan , a Gascon gentleman , serving in the king ’ s Musketeers .
“ Ah , if your excellency chose , ” said the captain , “ you might have capital sport. ” “ Where ? ” “ Do you see that island ? ” continued the captain , pointing to a conical pile rising from the indigo sea .
Oh , leave me , sir ; you are tempting me—you make me doubt the goodness of Providence—it is impossible , it can not be ! ” “ Are you the first that this hand has stricken ?
Edward raised his head , looked at his mother , and then , finding that she did not confirm the order , began cutting off the heads of his leaden soldiers .
Why , it was he who carried me off ! ” “ That may be , madame ! ” “ And you receive silver from that man ? ” “ Have you not said that that abduction was entirely political ? ” “ Yes ; but that abduction had for its object the betrayal of my mistress , to draw from me by torture confessions that might compromise the honor , and perhaps the life , of my august mistress. ” “ Madame , ” replied Bonacieux , “ your august mistress is a perfidious Spaniard , and what the cardinal does is well done. ” “ Monsieur , ” said the young woman , “ I know you to be cowardly , avaricious , and foolish , but I never till now believed you infamous ! ” “ Madame , ” said Bonacieux , who had never seen his wife in a passion , and who recoiled before this conjugal anger , “ madame , what do you say ? ” “ I say you are a miserable creature ! ” continued Mme .
France has already received Queen Henrietta , and , unintentionally , doubtless , has maintained a centre of inextinguishable civil war in my country .
“ You will give me a copy this evening , which I shall know by heart tomorrow. ” D ’ Artagnan looked at his friends , as if to say , “ Well , what did I tell you ? ” “ Now , ” continued he , addressing Planchet , “ you have eight days to get an interview with Lord de Winter ; you have eight days to return—in all sixteen days .
As for Peppino , he examined the paper attentively , put it into his pocket , and continued eating his peas .
“ Yes , yes , ” replied he , “ I perceive that plainly ; but do you really believe it is she ? ” “ I am sure of it. ” “ Nevertheless , I confess I still doubt. ” “ But the _fleur-de-lis_ on her shoulder ? ” “ She is some Englishwoman who has committed a crime in France , and has been branded in consequence. ” “ Athos , she is your wife , I tell you , ” repeated D ’ Artagnan ; “ only reflect how much the two descriptions resemble each other. ” “ Yes ; but I should think the other must be dead , I hanged her so effectually. ” It was D ’ Artagnan who now shook his head in his turn .
The Duc de Beaufort made his entrance at court , receiving ample reparation for the wrongs he had suffered , and all the honor due to his rank .
Well , that was a temptation for two wretches like you .
“ You hear , madame ? ” “ Yes , sire , I hear , ” stammered the queen .
They have vexed you , and you are angry ? ” The paralytic closed his eyes in token of assent .
At the foot of the staircase De Winter stopped .
“ They are Spanish smugglers , ” said he ; “ they have with them two Corsican bandits. ” “ And what are these Corsican bandits doing here with Spanish smugglers ? ” “ Alas , ” returned the captain with an accent of the most profound pity , “ we ought always to help one another .
“ Of what country ? ” “ A Frenchman. ” “ Your name ? ” “ Edmond Dantès. ” “ Your profession ? ” “ A sailor. ” “ How long have you been here ? ” “ Since the 28th of February , 1815. ” “ Your crime ? ” “ I am innocent. ” “ But of what are you accused ? ” “ Of having conspired to aid the emperor ’ s return. ” “ What !
I know not whether he is still my friend , but since that time I have remained his. ” “ And these men are in France , my lord ? ” “ I believe so. ” “ Tell me their names ; perhaps I may have heard them mentioned and might be able to aid you in finding them. ” “ One of them was called the Chevalier d ’ Artagnan. ” “ Ah , my lord , if I mistake not , the Chevalier d ’ Artagnan is lieutenant of royal guards ; but take care , for I fear that this man is entirely devoted to the cardinal. ” “ That would be a misfortune , ” said De Winter , “ and I shall begin to think that we are really doomed. ” “ But the others , ” said the queen , who clung to this last hope as a shipwrecked man clings to the hull of his vessel .
The two serving-men waited without ; but as if they likewise mistrusted each other , they kept their respective distances .
help ! ” cried he .
So , sir , you wish to see all relating to the poor abbé , who really was gentleness itself. ” “ Yes , you will much oblige me. ” “ Go into my study here , and I will show it to you. ” And they both entered M. de Boville ’ s study .
But hear me , ” continued she .
Athos listened to his projects , then shook his head , and recommended prudence to him with a shade of bitterness .
Its purple visage , and its violet-colored hands showed that it had perished from suffocation , but as it was not yet cold , I hesitated to throw it into the water that ran at my feet .
My heart beat so violently that I feared my wound would open .
Take your glass , then , and let us drink .
Come , accept my invitation , and my mother will thank you. ” “ A thousand thanks , ” said the count , “ your invitation is most gracious , and I regret exceedingly that it is not in my power to accept it .
The Riot becomes a Revolution .
“ ‘ Thanks , ’ replied the jeweller .
She then had one of those sudden inspirations which only people of genius receive in great crises , in supreme moments which are to decide their fortunes or their lives .
“ Come , sir , ” he said , “ lend me twenty francs ; you will soon be paid ; you run no risks with me .
but the king is asleep. ” “ I have something important to reveal to him. ” “ Can it not be put off till to-morrow ? ” “ He must know it this moment , and perhaps it is already too late. ” “ Come , then , ” said Lord Winter .
Above the splintered mast a sail rent to tatters was waving ; suddenly the ropes that still held it gave way , and it disappeared in the darkness of the night like a vast sea-bird .
I know , because it is my office to know everything .
The four friends , during the period of these two absences , had , as may well be supposed , the eye on the watch , the nose to the wind , and the ear on the hark .
yes—I should expect so ; besides , if they forget , I shall take the liberty of reminding them. ” “ The queen ’ s voice !
Her friendship was a fatal sign which called down persecution .
He had spent every farthing that had been allowed for his journey as a reward for the majestic and solemn manner in which he had maintained his assumed character of father .
Pay and eat. ” “ And what am I to pay with , brute ? ” said Danglars , enraged .
“ Let us see , ” said the queen , “ what the count says. ” And she opened the letter and read : “ Madame , —Being unable to have the honor of writing to you myself , by reason of a wound I have received in my right hand , I have commanded my son , the Count de Guiche , who , with his father , is equally your humble servant , to write to tell you that we have just gained the battle of Lens , and that this victory can not fail to give great power to Cardinal Mazarin and to the queen over the affairs of Europe .
Have I , sir , comprehended your instructions ? ” Athos smiled .
Chapter XL .
The truth was , it had been entirely overlooked in the plan arranged and followed out by M. Danglars and his architect , who had been selected to aid the baron in the great work of improvement solely because he was the most fashionable and celebrated decorator of the day .
Bonacieux in the convent of the Carmelites at Béthune , the trial in the isolated house , and the execution on the banks of the Lys .
He appeared to foresee all , to divine all , to anticipate all .
Well , you soon become tired of singing , and you take a fancy to study diplomacy with the minister ’ s secretary .
“ Adieu , my kind friends !
the people have seen Monsieur de Condé , a prince of the blood royal , arrested by my mother-in-law , Maria de Medicis ; they saw my mother-in-law , their former regent , expelled by the cardinal ; they saw Monsieur de Vendome , that is to say , the son of Henry IV. , a prisoner at Vincennes ; and whilst these great personages were imprisoned , insulted and threatened , they said nothing ; and now for a Broussel—good God !
At whatsoever hour of the day or night you may present yourself , remember that I shall be ready to give you absolution. ” “ Thank you , my lord , ” said the mendicant in a hoarse voice .
Franz returned to the manuscript , and continued : “ ‘ “ Sir , ” said the president , “ you have been invited to join this assembly—you were not forced here ; it was proposed to you to come blindfolded—you accepted .
They looked for M. Danglars , but , as he was not especially interested in poetical ideas , he had gone into the garden , and was talking with Major Cavalcanti on the projected railway from Leghorn to Florence .
This rabbit dead , the Abbé Adelmonte has its entrails taken out by his cook and thrown on the dunghill ; on this dunghill is a hen , who , pecking these intestines , is in her turn taken ill , and dies next day .
Though answered in the negative , he begged so earnestly to be permitted to visit those on the fifth floor , that , in despite of the oft-repeated assurance of the _concierge_ that they were occupied , Dantès succeeded in inducing the man to go up to the tenants , and ask permission for a gentleman to be allowed to look at them .
I regret that I ever crossed swords with you , Porthos ; I swear not only that it shall never again be pointed at your breast , but that in the bottom of my heart there will never in future be the slightest hostile sentiment ; now , Athos , come. ” Athos was about to retire .
“ And what effect did this discourse produce ? ” anxiously inquired Albert .
Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark , and may not be used if you charge for an eBook , except by following the terms of the trademark license , including paying royalties for use of the Project Gutenberg trademark .
The same noise of a door opening and shutting was repeated the instant afterward ; the flaming globe descended afresh , and I was completely alone .
Come , forget him for a moment , and instead of pursuing him , let him go. ” “ You are too late , madame ; the orders are issued. ” “ Well , should he be arrested—do they think they will arrest him ? ” “ I hope so. ” “ If they should arrest him ( I know that sometimes prisons afford means of escape ) , will you leave him in prison ? ” The procureur shook his head .
“ As you are my commander , it is my duty to obey. ” And springing backward , he broke his sword across his knee to avoid the necessity of surrendering it , threw the pieces over the convent wall , and crossed his arms , whistling a cardinalist air .
if he troubles me too much I will crush him , the insect !
Grimaud and his basket were far in advance , out of the range of the balls .
He came , hoping that I would accept my shame , as my shame was consummated ; he came to offer his fortune in exchange for my love .
M. de Morcerf is sometimes occupied , his business makes him reflective , and he might , without intending it—— ” “ Nothing could be in better taste than my father ’ s demeanor , madame , ” said Albert ; “ nay , more , he seemed greatly flattered at two or three compliments which the count very skilfully and agreeably paid him with as much ease as if he had known him these thirty years .
This time D ’ Artagnan was not hasty .
It ’ s my Spanish wine that has got into your head , is it not ?
Apropos , when do you aspect M. d ’ Épinay ? ” “ Five or six days hence at the latest. ” “ And when is he to be married ? ” “ Immediately on the arrival of M. and Madame de Saint-Méran. ” “ Bring him to see me .
And that you should fail me ! ” D ’ Artagnan passed a very bad night .
The host proved to be a worthy man , as bald as a Chinaman .
Ratonneau and Pomègue are the nearest islands of all those that surround the Château d ’ If , but Ratonneau and Pomègue are inhabited , as is also the islet of Daume .
You are only responsible for my body , is it not so ?
If they kill you , English justice will be under an obligation to me for having saved it trouble .
The young lady went towards Madame Morrel .
Directly afterwards the distant sound of a heavy weight falling on the ground was heard , but no one paid any attention to it ; the nurse was engaged in watching the chemical analysis , and Villefort was still absorbed in grief .
you remain in London ? ” said Porthos .
“ Is the officer referred to a relation of yours , then ? ” demanded the journalist .
The two sailors redoubled their efforts , and one of them cried in Italian , “ Courage ! ” The word reached his ear as a wave which he no longer had the strength to surmount passed over his head .
Here is what each of the parties concerned gained by that treaty : Monsieur de Conti received Damvilliers , and having made his proofs as general , he succeeded in remaining a soldier , instead of being made cardinal .
“ Tell them , ” said Morrel in a hoarse voice , “ tell them that I am her betrothed .
“ And as for your poor arm , what difference will that make ?
This evening ’ s adventure will serve for my excuse .
Good-night , friend. ” And Andrea , after placing six pieces of five francs each in the man ’ s hand , leaped lightly on to the pathway .
“ A most lovely creature , upon my soul ! ” was his verdict .
Two bars removed formed an opening for a man to pass through .
However , recovering my strength and my ideas , ‘ Why , ’ said I , ‘ should that man have carried away the corpse ? ’ ” “ But you said , ” replied Madame Danglars , “ he would require it as a proof. ” “ Ah , no , madame , that could not be .
I acknowledge myself guilty of all the young man has brought against me , and from this hour hold myself under the authority of the procureur who will succeed me. ” And as he spoke these words with a hoarse , choking voice , he staggered towards the door , which was mechanically opened by a door-keeper .
Athos merely glanced at it .
Since my brother ’ s assassination in the streets of Nîmes , I had never entered the town ; the result was that the innkeeper with whom we were connected , seeing that we would no longer come to him , was forced to come to us , and had established a branch to his inn , on the road from Bellegarde to Beaucaire , at the sign of the Pont du Gard .
Barrois , therefore , as we have seen , watched for Valentine , and informed her of her grandfather ’ s wish .
Since I set my foot in France , and knew the traitor lived in Paris , I have watched carefully .
Your fellow-countryman , Bonaparte , became emperor. ” We had forgotten to say that Jacopo was a Corsican .
I will , in the meantime , go and prepare the young man for this much-desired interview , for I presume that he is not less impatient for it than yourself. ” “ I should quite imagine that to be the case , ” said Cavalcanti .
One thing alone , however , threw a shade over the pallid brow of Felton .
“ But what is the matter with my hands ! ” asked Milady ; “ it seems as if my wrists had been crushed in a vice. ” Milady held out her arms ; her wrists were bruised .
“ Oh , of the most unfortunate kind , monsieur .
You say we are going— ” “ To see Athos now , and if you will come thither , I beg you to make haste , for we have lost much time already .
want one ! ” cried the Gascon .
You will not leave me to perish !
and when ?
Other turnkeys came , and then was heard the regular tramp of soldiers .
This gloomy fortress , which has for more than three hundred years furnished food for so many wild legends , seemed to Dantès like a scaffold to a malefactor .
Aramis contented himself by making a sign with his head .
Oh , quite the contrary , dear friend , I swear ; and as a proof of what I say , permit me to declare I am rejoiced to see you safe and sound. ” “ Ah , he ’ ll come round , ” thought D ’ Artagnan ; “ that ’ s not bad ! ” “ This gentleman , who is my friend , has just escaped from a serious danger , ” continued Aramis , with unction , pointing to D ’ Artagnan with his hand , and addressing the two ecclesiastics .
if we had you , my friends !
He invited me to a hunting party on his property in the month of September , 1646 .
At all events , young man , rely upon one who has been thirty years at court .
Stop—but—it is very strange—oh , my God , my head swims !
This noise redoubled when D ’ Artagnan , with a company of musketeers , placed himself at the gates of Notre Dame to secure the service of the church .
Can you enlighten me on that point ? ” “ I do not know who could if I could not , ” said Caderousse .
‘ I have not enough , ’ you said , when you had more than you before possessed , and you committed a third crime , without reason , without excuse .
The bandit ’ s laws are positive ; a young girl belongs first to him who carries her off , then the rest draw lots for her , and she is abandoned to their brutality until death relieves her sufferings .
“ You can restore it to his family , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ Well , ” said Porthos , “ what do you want , and why do you not let us listen to the end of the conversation ? ” “ Hush ! ” said Athos , speaking in a low voice .
I succeeded a man of the most sublime genius that ever upheld the sceptre of France .
Chapter LIII .
We must confess these three strange names struck us ; and it immediately occurred to us that they were but pseudonyms , under which D ’ Artagnan had disguised names perhaps illustrious , or else that the bearers of these borrowed names had themselves chosen them on the day in which , from caprice , discontent , or want of fortune , they had donned the simple Musketeer ’ s uniform .
Our house , ” added the Englishman with a laugh , “ does not do things in that way. ” “ And you will pay—— ” “ Ready money. ” 20023m And the Englishman drew from his pocket a bundle of bank-notes , which might have been twice the sum M. de Boville feared to lose .
Milady was no longer for him that woman of fatal intentions who had for a moment terrified him ; she was an ardent , passionate mistress , abandoning herself to love which she also seemed to feel .
“ Sir , ” said Planchet , in a mournful tone , “ do you abandon me thus to my fate ?
She could scarcely believe in her happiness ; and D ’ Artagnan was forced to renew with the living voice the assurances which he had written .
Athos believed that everyone should be left to his own free will .
At this moment a soldier entered to inform them that Groslow was waiting for them .
“ Are you quite alone ? ” inquired the guest , as Caderousse placed before him the bottle of wine and a glass .
He had been subjected to a severe disciplinary course of medicine , at length he sent away all his doctors , declaring that he preferred the disease to the treatment , and came to Paris , where the fame of his wit had preceded him .
Hallo , Fernand !
Thus , we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition .
The Gascon , therefore , instead of answering , growled out “ Ja !
I see the other soldier issue from the guardroom and come toward us. ” “ I think , ” replied Porthos , “ it would be imprudent to attempt the same manoeuvre again ; it is said that no man can succeed twice in the same way , and a failure would be ruinous .
The matter enters completely into the duties of the post. ” “ Let him be sent for instantly. ” “ He is most likely at my hôtel .
Signor Pastrini had already set about procuring their disguises for the morrow ; and he assured them that they would be perfectly satisfied .
“ You are sure there is nobody there ? ” said the stranger .
Besides , Porthos can not owe you much. ” “ How , not much !
15 , on the corner of a mantelpiece in a small room on the fifth floor. ” “ But , ” cried Morrel , “ this purse is not yours ! ” Julie handed to her father the letter she had received in the morning .
By a lucky chance the pen was tolerably good and Raoul began to write .
“ Rest yourself , mother , ” he said .
“ I shall see you through the window as you mount your horse ; I shall follow you with my eyes as long as you are in sight ; then I shall place myself at the cardinal ’ s door—a door with glass windows .
20177m The strife had fairly begun , and the recollection of what they had seen half an hour before was gradually effaced from the young men ’ s minds , so much were they occupied by the gay and glittering procession they now beheld .
“ You have my promise , ” he said , after a minute ’ s pause , extending his hand to Monte Cristo .
The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work .
“ What is the matter , then ? ” he asked himself , trembling more than the wind-swayed cloth he was holding back .
“ Speak , ” said Athos .
Isn ’ t it reasonable ? ” “ Yes , dear friend , ” Athos replied , “ but you said a word the other day that was more than reasonable—it was noble and generous .
“ Capital ! ” exclaimed the Gascon .
But yet , ” continued the king , “ undoubtedly my haste accuses you wrongfully ; without doubt the rioters are in prison , and you come to tell me justice is done. ” “ Sire , ” replied M. de Tréville , calmly , “ on the contrary , I come to demand it of you. ” “ And against whom ? ” cried the king .
Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare ( or are legally required to prepare ) your periodic tax returns .
You are abused , sir ; but that is not the question .
“ Oh , what imprudence , my lord , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ ’ tis not good to be about just here without a light .
Answer ! ” continued Milady .
You were writing. ” “ I ? ” “ Your fingers are stained with ink. ” “ Ah , true , I was writing .
Let us take a turn around the town and imbibe a little fog. ” “ Yes , ” said Porthos , “ ’ twill be at least a little change from beer. ” Chapter LXIII .
“ Ah !
The Nubian immediately descended and opened the carriage door .
We have said that Teresa was handsome , but this is not all ; Teresa was endowed with all those wild graces which are so much more potent than our affected and studied elegancies .
“ I can not speak Latin , ” responded the marquise .
I shall know about that soon , for I shall soon speak out to Athos. ” Day was now advanced ; all the noises that had ceased the night before reawakened , one after the other .
“ What is it ?
“ The day after my return to Lille , my brother in his turn succeeded in making his escape ; I was accused of complicity , and was condemned to remain in his place till he should be again a prisoner .
“ Yours is a noble nature. ” he said ; “ here is your sword. ” Raoul bent his knee to the ground .
“ I entreat you—— ” continued Villefort .
“ Now , sir , ” said the count , “ you are safe—calm yourself. ” “ Ah !
“ Well , then , go , —wait for me there , and I will soon join you. ” “ You leave me , then ? ” “ Yes ; I also have a pious visit to pay. ” Morrel allowed his hand to fall into that which the count extended to him ; then with an inexpressibly sorrowful inclination of the head he quitted the count and bent his steps to the east of the city .
“ Wretched men ! ” “ Their officers wish to see you , sir. ” “ I have no time to see them .
‘ I bought , ’ said he , ‘ the business of my predecessor on the strength of his assurance that he supplied the castle ; whereas , on my honor , Monsieur de Chavigny , though I ’ ve been here a week , has not ordered so much as a tartlet. ’ ‘ But , ’ I then replied , ‘ probably Monsieur de Chavigny is afraid your pastry is not good. ’ ‘ My pastry not good !
Oh , if such a thought could present itself , I would stab myself to punish my heart for having for one instant harbored it. ” “ Indeed , my dear friend , ” said M. d ’ Avrigny , “ I would not accuse anyone ; I speak only of an accident , you understand , —of a mistake , —but whether accident or mistake , the fact is there ; it is on my conscience and compels me to speak aloud to you .
“ You will , I trust , excuse me , monsieur , for not calling you by your title when I first addressed you , ” he said , “ but you are aware that we are living under a popular form of government , and that I am myself a representative of the liberties of the people. ” “ So much so , ” replied Monte Cristo , “ that while you call yourself baron you are not willing to call anybody else count. ” “ Upon my word , monsieur , ” said Danglars with affected carelessness , “ I attach no sort of value to such empty distinctions ; but the fact is , I was made baron , and also chevalier of the Legion of Honor , in return for services rendered , but—— ” “ But you have discarded your titles after the example set you by Messrs. de Montmorency and Lafayette ?
All five , followed by their lackeys leading their horses , took their way to the town of Béthune , whose outskirts they perceived , and stopped before the first inn they came to .
I have just made M. de Villefort promise to call on him , and I hope the visit will be returned .
You are a hundred times too good. ” “ Begone , then , find them instantly , and let all be done tonight !
Well , once returned from the country , half by the protection of her cousin , half through what we have personally done for her , we shall obtain from the queen what we desire .
Why , you are mad , Albert !
Through this window shone a mild light which silvered the foliage of two or three linden trees which formed a group outside the park .
The only amusements left us are the indifferent races at the Champ-de-Mars and Satory .
And why , when everyone else was allowed to be ransomed , might he not also be ?
On the cross I swear , if I ever leave this place , to call down vengeance upon you from the whole human race ! ’ “ ‘ Beware ! ’ said the voice , in a threatening accent that I had never yet heard .
You have water—woods—flowers there ? ” She sighed again and leaned her charming head , gracefully reclined , on her hand , still beautiful in form and color .
Why should they ?
“ I stumbled over some object ; I stooped to examine—it was the second pistol , which had not gone off , probably from the powder being wet .
Have you seen him since I left him ?
You have committed the first wrong , since it was you who suspected the queen. ” “ What !
D ’ Artagnan threw himself on his neck and embraced him tenderly .
But D ’ Artagnan made a friendly sign to him with his head , dismounted , and throwing his bridle to a lackey who was passing , he approached the valet-de-chambre with a smile on his lips .
A most gracious welcome and unusual smile were bestowed on M. Danglars ; the count , in return for his gentlemanly bow , received a formal though graceful courtesy , while Lucien exchanged with the count a sort of distant recognition , and with Danglars a free and easy nod .
To you , as the king ’ s attorney , I denounce Mademoiselle de Villefort , do your duty. ” “ Doctor , I resist no longer—I can no longer defend myself—I believe you ; but , for pity ’ s sake , spare my life , my honor ! ” “ M .
“ Well , ” asked he of the count , “ what has , then , happened ? ” “ Nothing , ” replied the count ; “ only , as you see , the Carnival has commenced .
Begone , and may God guide you ! ” “ Amen ! ” cried the young man , and set off at full gallop .
THE BASTION SAINT-GERVAIS On arriving at the lodgings of his three friends , D ’ Artagnan found them assembled in the same chamber .
He continued to follow the path to the glade ; but , to his great surprise , Carlini arrived almost as soon as himself .
These were the two men who were to conduct Milady to Fort La Pointe , and superintend her embarkation .
It was an order the count had just given , for immediately Ali went noiselessly , and returned , bearing a black dress and a three-cornered hat .
He might be recognized , not only by these signs , but also from the accent with which he spoke to the postilion , as a Frenchman .
The carriage stopped at the door of the palace .
For the emperor ’ s return ? —the emperor is no longer on the throne , then ? ” “ He abdicated at Fontainebleau in 1814 , and was sent to the Island of Elba .
I wish my life to be free and open .
75. ” “ Where is that ? ” “ By the side of the Luxembourg. ” “ And you are certain that the queen and he did not see each other ? ” “ I believe the queen to have too high a sense of her duty , sire. ” “ But they have corresponded ; it is to him that the queen has been writing all the day .
Athos , foreseeing the period when he should make a soldier of the viscount , had inured him to all kinds of arduous undertakings .
“ Very good , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ and now in what direction did they set out ? ” “ That I am forbidden to tell. ” D ’ Artagnan drew from his pocket a paper .
Franz and the count got into the carriage .
Overcome by example , grumbling to himself , nevertheless , Porthos stretched out his hand , and the four friends repeated with one voice the formula dictated by D ’ Artagnan : “ All for one , one for all. ” “ That ’ s well !
“ I mean that M. de Monte Cristo , digging underneath these trees , found neither skeleton nor chest , because neither of them was there ! ” “ Neither of them there ? ” repeated Madame Danglars , her staring , wide-open eyes expressing her alarm .
He guessed that the lady of the black hood was the procurator ’ s wife of the Rue aux Ours , which was the more probable from the church of St. Leu being not far from that locality .
0263m If they took him to the cemetery and laid him in a grave , he would allow himself to be covered with earth , and then , as it was night , the grave-diggers could scarcely have turned their backs before he would have worked his way through the yielding soil and escaped .
Everyone looked at Carlini ; the sheath at his belt was empty .
I assure you , ” cried Danglars , with a confidence and security proceeding less from fear than from the interest he really felt for the young man , “ I solemnly declare to you , that I should never have thought of writing to Yanina , did I know anything of Ali Pasha ’ s misfortunes. ” “ Who , then , urged you to write ?
He had gained much information , but not enough .
In a splendid chamber of the Palais Royal , formerly styled the Palais Cardinal , a man was sitting in deep reverie , his head supported on his hands , leaning over a gilt and inlaid table which was covered with letters and papers .
The king saw the four gentlemen come in , but appeared to take no notice of them .
He had advanced at first , but stopped at the sight of this display of force .
I am dying !
Thanks to the cares of Mousqueton , the exterior was far from announcing the distress of the interior .
“ But what ? ” asked the groom .
At the queen ’ s last word , D ’ Artagnan had dragged Porthos into the gallery .
And since Villefort , the friend of Danglars , had acted in this way , no one could suppose that he had been previously acquainted with , or had lent himself to , any of Andrea ’ s intrigues .
He commanded a retreat , which began , step by step , foot by foot ; unhappily , in an instant he fell , mortally wounded .
In addition to this , D ’ Artagnan possessed that invincible stock of resolution which the counsels of his father had implanted in his heart : “ Endure nothing from anyone but the king , the cardinal , and Monsieur de Tréville. ” He flew , then , rather than walked , toward the convent of the Carmes Déchaussés , or rather Deschaux , as it was called at that period , a sort of building without a window , surrounded by barren fields—an accessory to the Preaux-Clercs , and which was generally employed as the place for the duels of men who had no time to lose .
My dear count , you can not imagine how my mind is harassed .
In ten minutes Mazarin and his party were traversing the street “ Les Bons Enfants ” behind the theatre built by Richelieu expressly for the play of “ Mirame , ” and in which Mazarin , who was an amateur of music , but not of literature , had introduced into France the first opera that was ever acted in that country .
She had heard something said about supper .
But what are they to do ?
idole de mon âme ! ’ “ I was the first to discover Duprez at Naples , and the first to applaud him .
“ But in returning thither last night , when fortunately you did not accompany him , as his carriage was crossing the Rue de la Ferronnerie his guards insulted the people , who began to abuse them .
“ Thank you , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ now you must permit me to take my leave of you. ” “ You said before that you were obliged to leave us , monsieur , ” said Madame de Villefort , “ and you were about to tell us why when your attention was called to some other subject. ” “ Indeed madame , ” said Monte Cristo : “ I scarcely know if I dare tell you where I am going. ” “ Nonsense ; say on. ” “ Well , then , it is to see a thing on which I have sometimes mused for hours together. ” “ What is it ? ” “ A telegraph .
This man , who had remained immovable as bronze when menaced by the mob—not a muscle of whose face was stirred , either at Mazarin ’ s witticisms or by the jests of the multitude—seemed to the cardinal a peculiar being , who , having participated in past events similar to those now occurring , was calculated to cope with those now on the eve of taking place .
At the end of an instant ’ s observation he heard the noise of a vehicle , and saw Milady ’ s carriage stop opposite to him .
He had observed between the house that Madame de Longueville inhabited and the convent of the Jesuits , an open space surrounded by a hedge .
In this waiting room were five or six of the cardinal ’ s Guards , who recognized D ’ Artagnan , and knowing that it was he who had wounded Jussac , they looked upon him with a smile of singular meaning .
In the Bastile one talks politics only with soldiers and jailers , and you have not an idea , my lord , how little is known of what is going on by people of that sort ; I am of Monsieur de Bassompierre ’ s party .
and why , if you knew me , do you let me die ? ” “ Because nothing can save you ; your wounds are mortal .
what do you fear ? ” “ Everything ! ” replied Athos .
Well , I vow I felt exactly the same sensation at sight of that man when he said , ‘ Why do you ask me that ? ’ and looked so strangely at me. ” “ Then you regret that you did not cut your serpent in two morsels ? ” “ Faith , yes , almost , ” said Raoul .
The shot had frightfully lacerated her throat , leaving two gaping wounds from which , as well as the mouth , the blood was pouring in floods .
From his past life , from his resolution to shrink from nothing , the count had acquired an inconceivable relish for the contests in which he had engaged , sometimes against nature , that is to say , against God , and sometimes against the world , that is , against the devil .
Shall you never leave me again ?
“ Not at all , ” said Château-Renaud , slowly ; “ I think he is violently agitated .
Ah , I am sure he has not sold the house for what he gave for it. ” “ The Marquis of Saint-Méran ! ” returned the count .
I suffer less because there is in me less strength to endure .
Do you understand me ? ” cried Monte Cristo .
our dear count ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
Then with a friendly gesture toward Mousqueton , that he might forgive him for finishing an enterprise so brilliantly begun by another , he glided like a serpent through the opening and disappeared .
“ I told you so ! ” exclaimed Madame de Villefort .
Maximilian , who was paying them a visit , listened to their conversation , or rather was present at it , plunged in his accustomed state of apathy .
I hope to kill all four of you , but I am more likely to kill the first than the second , the second than the third , and the third than the last .
It could not be said that it was wine which produced this sadness ; for in truth he only drank to combat this sadness , which wine however , as we have said , rendered still darker .
The confusion of his mind , the terror which spurred him on , the cries of some of the patrol who started in pursuit of him , and the hooting of the people who , notwithstanding the early hour , were going to their work , only made him precipitate his course .
A table , ready set out , awaited them .
Porthos replied that he asked no better if the stranger , in his turn , would drink the health of the king .
“ Downstairs in the decanter. ” “ Whereabouts downstairs ? ” “ In the kitchen. ” “ Shall I go and fetch it , doctor ? ” inquired Villefort .
You may call on the notary , M. Deschamps , Place Beauveau , Faubourg Saint-Honoré , and you have my authority to inspect those deeds. ” “ Sir , ” replied M. d ’ Épinay , “ it is not , perhaps , the moment for Mademoiselle Valentine , who is in deep distress , to think of a husband ; indeed , I fear—— ” 40028m “ Valentine will have no greater pleasure than that of fulfilling her grandmother ’ s last injunctions ; there will be no obstacle from that quarter , I assure you. ” “ In that case , ” replied Franz , “ as I shall raise none , you may make arrangements when you please ; I have pledged my word , and shall feel pleasure and happiness in adhering to it. ” “ Then , ” said Villefort , “ nothing further is required .
P.S.—Do pray contrive some means for me to meet the Count of Monte Cristo at your house .
“ I did not do it intentionally , and not doing it intentionally , I said ‘ Excuse me. ’ It appears to me that this is quite enough .
Aramis stipulated that Bazin should officiate at that ceremony and that Planchet should furnish the christening sugar plums .
Chapter XIV .
This is all I can say , sir ; if you wish to learn more , address yourself to M. de Boville , the inspector of prisons , No .
“ There was , above all , one room , ” continued Monte Cristo , “ very plain in appearance , hung with red damask , which , I know not why , appeared to me quite dramatic. ” “ Why so ? ” said Danglars ; “ why dramatic ? ” “ Can we account for instinct ? ” said Monte Cristo .
“ Oh , real enough , from anxiety doubtless , —at any rate they postponed the matter for two months .
The sword of the Guardsman slipped along the barrel of the now-useless weapon , and passed through the thigh of the assassin , who fell .
D ’ Avrigny followed the direction and saw that they were fixed on a bottle containing the mixture which he took every morning .
It was one of the magnificent autumn days which make amends for a short summer ; the clouds which M. de Villefort had perceived at sunrise had all disappeared as if by magic , and one of the softest and most brilliant days of September shone forth in all its splendor .
Ah , he is not a man like that cursed D ’ Artagnan .
M. de Villefort heard of him at Marseilles , and M. Danglars recollects having seen him .
I invite you with good-will. ’ “ ‘ Thank you , ’ replied the jeweller , ‘ it must be getting late , and I must return to Beaucaire—my wife will be getting uneasy. ’ He drew out his watch , and exclaimed , ‘ _Morbleu ! _ nearly nine o ’ clock—why , I shall not get back to Beaucaire before midnight !
Valentine , whom we have in the rapid march of our narrative presented to our readers without formally introducing her , was a tall and graceful girl of nineteen , with bright chestnut hair , deep blue eyes , and that reposeful air of quiet distinction which characterized her mother .
The mountaineers are Bonapartists , sire. ” “ Then , ” murmured Louis , “ he was well informed .
He was about to marry her , when one of the caprices of fate , —which would almost make us doubt the goodness of Providence , if that Providence did not afterwards reveal itself by proving that all is but a means of conducting to an end , —one of those caprices deprived him of his mistress , of the future of which he had dreamed ( for in his blindness he forgot he could only read the present ) , and cast him into a dungeon. ” “ Ah , ” said Morrel , “ one quits a dungeon in a week , a month , or a year. ” “ He remained there fourteen years , Morrel , ” said the count , placing his hand on the young man ’ s shoulder .
Raoul mounted his horse , and both leisurely took their way to the Rue Tiquetonne .
Bonacieux who was to have paid him the price of his devotedness ; but let us hasten to say that this sadness possessed the young man less from the regret of the happiness he had missed , than from the fear he entertained that some serious misfortune had befallen the poor woman .
“ Well , ” said Morcerf , “ I may as well be magnanimous , and tear myself away to forward your wishes .
It is very well for you , who risk your life every day , but for me , who only did so once—— ” “ We gather from all this , baron , that Captain Morrel saved your life. ” “ Exactly so. ” “ On what occasion ? ” asked Beauchamp .
Planchet !
A kind of steward appeared , just as D ’ Artagnan and his companions were prepared to mount .
“ Why did you not say all this before you took action , sir ? ” she said .
It advanced swiftly and gracefully , leaving behind it a glittering stretch of foam .
1.E.7 .
Already excited by the wonderful stories related of the count by de Morcerf , it is no wonder that Madame Danglars eagerly listened to , and fully credited , all the additional circumstances detailed by Debray .
And so , as we have said , the iron gate leading into the kitchen-garden had been closed up and left to the rust , which bade fair before long to eat off its hinges , while to prevent the ignoble glances of the diggers and delvers of the ground from presuming to sully the aristocratic enclosure belonging to the mansion , the gate had been boarded up to a height of six feet .
Every one hoped so , so that the minister felt that all around him , beneath the homage of the courtiers , lay a fund of hatred , ill disguised by fear and interest .
Tell them—oh , tell them , that corpse belongs to me ! ” The young man overwhelmed by the weight of his anguish , fell heavily on his knees before the bed , which his fingers grasped with convulsive energy .
Be clear , short and precise. ” “ As for me , ” replied Aramis , “ I have in my pocket the very programme of the conditions which the deputation—of which I formed one—went yesterday to Saint Germain to impose on you .
Alas , no , I know not .
Leave the room , and send me a woman. ” “ Women are very indiscreet , my sister .
London .
But we must not lose time .
“ Go out this way , ” said she , opening a small private door , “ and come back at eleven o ’ clock ; we will then terminate this conversation .
The minister and the king exchanged numerous caresses , felicitating each other upon the fortunate chance which had freed France from the inveterate enemy who set all Europe against her .
The poorly fastened boards which alone divided me from it yielded to my efforts , and I found myself in the house .
“ Oh , had he been my own son , ” replied Bertuccio , “ or even my nephew , I would have brought him back to the right road , for the knowledge that you are doing your duty gives you strength , but the idea that I was striking a child whose father I had killed , made it impossible for me to punish him .
Milady , that woman so courageous and firm , shivered in spite of herself .
In the Rue Saint Honore Athos fell in with two gentlemen whom he did not know , on horseback like himself , followed by a lackey like himself , and going in the same direction that he was .
He hoped , then , in a conversation with Anne of Austria , to obtain some information from that conversation , and afterward to come upon his Eminence with some secret which the cardinal either knew or did not know , but which , in either case , would raise him infinitely in the eyes of his minister .
I have been taught these two aphorisms in Latin and in Greek ; one is , I believe , from Phædrus , and the other from Bias .
At midnight great cries and loud acclamations were heard .
They were only fit for a young man. ” “ I am much obliged by your kind intentions towards me , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ but this morning I purchased a very excellent pair of carriage-horses , and I do not think they were dear .
“ Oh , death is in my house ! ” cried Villefort .
Has your majesty forgotten that the king expects your reply and awaits it in agony ? ” “ Then indeed we are lost ! ” cried the queen , in the fullness of a broken heart .
There was an impressive silence ; Morcerf alone knew not why such profound attention was given to an orator who was not always listened to with so much complacency .
traitors ! ” screamed Lord Winter , whose voice they heard , whilst his men , quitting their ranks , dispersed all over the plain .
“ When I wished to retire into a convent , you remember how angry you were with me ? ” A tear trembled in the eye of the invalid .
Chapter LXXXVII .
The Trial Chapter 87 .
Arriving at the window Parry found an unfinished scaffold , over which they were nailing a covering of black serge .
You procure your mistresses from the opera , the Vaudeville , or the Variétés ; I purchased mine at Constantinople ; it cost me more , but I have nothing to fear. ” “ But you forget , ” replied Debray , laughing , “ that we are Franks by name and franks by nature , as King Charles said , and that the moment she puts her foot in France your slave becomes free. ” “ Who will tell her ? ” “ The first person who sees her. ” “ She only speaks Romaic. ” “ That is different. ” “ But at least we shall see her , ” said Beauchamp , “ or do you keep eunuchs as well as mutes ? ” “ Oh , no , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ I do not carry brutalism so far .
The eyes of both were fixed upon the spot indicated by the sailor , and on the blue line separating the sky from the Mediterranean Sea , they perceived a large white sail .
“ No ; and yet your father , a man accustomed to judicial accusations , ought to have known that all these deaths have not happened naturally ; it is he who should have watched over you—he should have occupied my place—he should have emptied that glass—he should have risen against the assassin .
THE COUNCIL OF THE MUSKETEERS As Athos had foreseen , the bastion was only occupied by a dozen corpses , French and Rochellais .
In order , doubtless , that he might not be disturbed while fulfilling his sacred mission , the priest rose as soon as d ’ Avrigny departed , and not only bolted the door through which the doctor had just left , but also that leading to Madame de Villefort ’ s room .
The blade was red , for the blood had become rust ; after a momentary examination during which the queen became as white as the cloth which covered the altar on which she was leaning , he put it back into the coffer with an involuntary shudder .
It seemed to Franz that he closed his eyes , and in a last look about him saw the vision of modesty completely veiled ; and then followed a dream of passion like that promised by the Prophet to the elect .
Really , that Demoiselle d ’ Aubigne is very charming ! ” So the invalid disappeared soon afterward and went into his sleeping-room ; and one by one the lights in the salon of the Rue des Tournelles were extinguished .
“ We must content ourselves , then , ” said Beauchamp , “ with rendering the count all the little services in our power .
Maximilian , you are no ordinary man .
“ My own conscience and your politeness , sir , are the guarantees of that. ” However flattering this compliment , the officer made no reply ; but drawing from his belt a little silver whistle , such as boatswains use in ships of war , he whistled three times , with three different modulations .
Really , my dear count , you seem to throw a sort of magic influence over all in which you are concerned ; when I listen to you , existence no longer seems reality , but a waking dream .
Never did funeral knell , never did alarm-bell , produce a greater effect on the hearer .
Ten minutes later they heard the rapid gallop of a troop of horsemen .
Dantès , cast from solitude into the world , frequently experienced an imperious desire for solitude ; and what solitude is more complete , or more poetical , than that of a ship floating in isolation on the sea during the obscurity of the night , in the silence of immensity , and under the eye of Heaven ?
At the stern the mysterious stranger was standing up looking towards the shore , and holding a spy-glass in his hand .
All eyes were turned towards this man—for to all except Athos he was unknown .
I am M. Mordaunt. ” “ Ah ! ” thought D ’ Artagnan , “ the man I am warned against by Athos. ” “ Ah ! ” thought Porthos , “ the man Aramis wants me to strangle. ” They both looked searchingly at the young man , who misunderstood the meaning of that inquisition .
The painful catastrophe he had just witnessed appeared effectually to have rent away the veil which the intoxication of the evening before had raised between himself and his memory .
It would be his bedroom they would attack , and they must reach it by the back staircase , or by the window in the dressing-room .
28 .
“ Bring me a _carafe_ of water , ” said the abbé .
While Madame de Villefort remained rooted to the spot like a statue of terror , and Villefort , with his head hidden in the bedclothes , saw nothing around him , d ’ Avrigny approached the window , that he might the better examine the contents of the glass , and dipping the tip of his finger in , tasted it .
“ Ah , you have a noble heart , ” said the count ; “ so much the better. ” This exclamation , which corresponded to the count ’ s own thought rather than to what Albert was saying , surprised everybody , and especially Morrel , who looked at Monte Cristo with wonder .
Oh , I would fight for such a cause ; but in return for a slow , profound , eternal torture , I would give back the same , were it possible ; an eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth , as the Orientalists say , —our masters in everything , —those favored creatures who have formed for themselves a life of dreams and a paradise of realities. ” “ But , ” said Franz to the count , “ with this theory , which renders you at once judge and executioner of your own cause , it would be difficult to adopt a course that would forever prevent your falling under the power of the law .
He was not deceived ; it was she whom he sought .
However , he , like Cæsar Borgia , knew the value of time ; and , in order to avoid fruitless toil , he sounded all the other walls with his pickaxe , struck the earth with the butt of his gun , and finding nothing that appeared suspicious , returned to that part of the wall whence issued the consoling sound he had before heard .
The count again refused .
“ Well , here we are at last , ” said one of them .
D ’ Artagnan already wore his uniform—for being nearly of the same size as Aramis , and as Aramis was so liberally paid by the publisher who purchased his poem as to allow him to buy everything double , he sold his friend a complete outfit .
“ Who knows if tomorrow , or the next day after , the third attack may not come on ?
How long you are before you tell me what I most wish to know ? ” “ Because , in truth , Albert—— ” “ You hesitate ? ” “ Yes , —I fear. ” “ You fear to acknowledge that your correspondent has deceived you ?
The Road to Picardy .
“ What shall I do ! ” he uttered , and reflected for a moment ; “ shall I ring ?
I will denounce you before men , as I have denounced you before God ; and if it be necessary that , like Lucretia , I should sign my accusation with my blood , I will sign it. ’ “ ‘ Ah ! ’ said my enemy , in a jeering tone , ‘ that ’ s quite another thing .
Everything in its proper time , and all comes right to those who know how to wait patiently .
Assunta took care of all , and our little fortune increased .
Scarcely had I finished my repast , when I felt myself sink by degrees into a strange torpor .
I can not comprehend what induced you to buy three ! ” “ Therefore I only purchased two , ” said Aramis .
haste ! ” said Felton ; “ do you not see that each of your words burns me like molten lead ? ” “ Then , ” continued Milady , “ then I collected all my strength ; I recalled to my mind that the moment of vengeance , or rather , of justice , had struck .
She had laid that down the preceding evening .
Let us pursue him , and we shall overtake him ! ” “ My dear friend , ” said Aramis , “ remember that he goes in an opposite direction from that in which we are going , that he has a fresh horse , and ours are fatigued , so that we shall disable our own horses without even a chance of overtaking him .
“ No. ” said Villefort ; “ fetch the nearest. ” “ The nearest , ” said the district doctor , “ is a good Italian abbé , who lives next door to you .
Athos , whose acquaintance I made about that period , and Porthos , who had in addition to my lessons taught me some effective tricks of fence , prevailed upon me to solicit the uniform of a Musketeer .
“ Certainly , you must give the orders , for I intend residing at the house. ” 20277m It was unexampled for a servant of the count ’ s to dare to dispute an order of his , so the steward , without saying a word , followed his master , who got into the carriage , and signed to him to follow , which he did , taking his place respectfully on the front seat .
By the way , I have received news of Franz. ” “ Have you ?
Athos and Aramis kept themselves to their role .
Of course they will do so as honorable gentlemen , and the best proof I can furnish is this—— ” So saying , he threw his hat on the ground , pushed back his chair to the wall and bowed to Mordaunt with true French grace .
But this was not so easy a matter , for the streets were thronged with people , and Rome was already a prey to that low and feverish murmur which precedes all great events ; and at Rome there are four great events in every year , —the Carnival , Holy Week , Corpus Christi , and the Feast of St. Peter .
At the end of ten minutes the vessel begins to roll heavily and settle down .
“ To purchase back my liberty ? ” said the cardinal .
It was then he heard a voice exclaim “ Valentine is dead ! ” and another voice which , like an echo repeated : “ Dead , —dead ! ” 50090m Chapter 103 .
1.E.3 .
“ The two children grew up together , passing all their time with each other , and giving themselves up to the wild ideas of their different characters .
“ Father , ” cried Maximilian , “ how could you say the _Pharaon_ was lost ?
Two hours after , as midnight sounded , the sentinel was relieved .
They are desirous that you should drink to their health in their favorite wine .
This , with my Spanish affairs , made a pretty end to the month. ” “ Then you really lost by that affair in Spain ? ” “ Yes ; only 700,000 francs out of my cash box—nothing more ! ” “ Why , how could you make such a mistake—such an old stager ? ” “ Oh , it is all my wife ’ s fault .
“ We want , ” said Athos , “ Charlotte Backson , who first was called Comtesse de la Fère , and afterwards Milady de Winter , Baroness of Sheffield. ” “ That is I !
Look , gentlemen , all ! ’ “ These words had been pronounced with such enthusiasm and evident truth , that every eye was fixed on the count ’ s forehead , and he himself passed his hand across it , as if he felt Ali ’ s blood still lingering there .
They placed themselves on guard ; the stranger made a feint and a lunge , and that so rapidly that when Monsieur Porthos came to the _parade_ , he had already three inches of steel in his breast .
“ What an awakening for the Parisians ! ” said the queen , radiant .
Two aces ! ” The Englishman looked , and was seized with astonishment .
Then , my lord—— ” “ Then what ? ” asked Mazarin .
To donate , please visit : www.gutenberg.org/donate .
saddle our horses , take your carbine. ” “ Whom are we going to attack , sir ? ” “ No one ; a mere matter of precaution , ” answered the Gascon .
Four other noblemen awaited me .
“ Ah , good-evening , my dear M. Caderousse , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ what are you doing here , at such an hour ? ” 40156m “ The Abbé Busoni ! ” exclaimed Caderousse ; and , not knowing how this strange apparition could have entered when he had bolted the doors , he let fall his bunch of keys , and remained motionless and stupefied .
Chapter 73 .
I ’ ll manage it somehow , you will see. ” “ But , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ now I think of it—what is to prevent our beginning to-night ? ” “ Nothing at all , ” said Groslow .
To save yourselves , to scamper away , to flee—that is good for the king ’ s Musketeers ! ” Porthos and Aramis trembled with rage .
“ If that is really so , how came you in the Bastille ? ” “ How I came there , or rather why I am there , ” replied Bonacieux , “ that is entirely impossible for me to tell you , because I don ’ t know myself ; but to a certainty it is not for having , knowingly at least , disobliged Monsieur the Cardinal. ” “ You must , nevertheless , have committed a crime , since you are here and are accused of high treason. ” “ Of high treason ! ” cried Bonacieux , terrified ; “ of high treason !
“ Come , ” he said , “ ’ tis a warning from Heaven .
We have only the vulture to deal with .
Old age is selfish , sir , and Mademoiselle de Villefort has been a faithful companion to M. Noirtier , which she can not be when she becomes the Baroness d ’ Épinay .
Immediately , without any order being given or his place of destination indicated , the coachman set off at a rapid pace , and plunged into the streets of the city .
At sight of this man , D ’ Artagnan started , and half drawing his sword , sprang toward the door .
La Mazzolata Chapter 36 .
Only , as our Gascon was not easily intimidated—or rather , thanks to a great pride natural to the men of his country , he did not allow one easily to see what was passing in his mind when that which was passing at all resembled fear—he placed himself haughtily in front of Messieurs the Guards , and waited with his hand on his hip , in an attitude by no means deficient in majesty .
The two doors before mentioned were in the middle of this wall , and enclosed the Villefort and Saint-Méran coffins .
He then concluded it must be an assassin .
But will you not go up ? ” “ Pass on before me , I beg of you. ” “ As the late cardinal used to say to the late king , ‘ only to show you the way , sire. ’ ” And Aramis ascended the ladder quickly and reached the window in an instant .
Monte Cristo , although apparently indifferent , had not lost one word of this conversation , and his penetrating eye had even read a hidden secret in the embarrassed manner of the secretary .
“ Dear , excellent friend , ” murmured Albert , still burning the papers .
His hands , gracefully placed , one upon his hat , the other in the opening of his white waistcoat , were not at all tremulous ; his eye was calm and even brilliant .
“ My friend , ” said Aramis , “ if you like to ascend I shall be delighted to receive you. ” “ Ah , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ is that the way you return to your apartment ? ” “ After nine at night , pardieu ! ” said Aramis , “ the rule of the convent is very severe. ” “ Pardon me , my dear friend , ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ I think you said ‘ pardieu ! ’ ” “ Do you think so ? ” said Aramis , smiling ; “ it is possible .
But the young man had begun to follow , or rather to advance before the boat .
pshaw !
“ But how ? ” asked Mazarin .
“ Or , rather , who pretend not to understand me , sir ! ” replied the prisoner , with a smile of incredulity .
So , then , he no more knew where Aramis was than where Athos and Porthos were , and the affair was becoming a matter of great perplexity , when he fancied he heard a pane of glass break in his room window .
In the corridor he met Mme .
Ah , monsieur , he was no longer a man , he was a devil !
Danglars motioned that he had nothing more to say .
He will be furious ; but I don ’ t care .
“ But are you no longer aware , ” continued Anne , giving that sweet expression to her voice which she could do at will , “ that in former days the queen had once need of a young , brave and devoted cavalier—that she found this cavalier—and that , although he might have thought that she had forgotten him , she had kept a place for him in the depths of her heart ? ” “ No , madame , I was ignorant of that , ” said the musketeer .
The letters being finished , each put his own into two envelopes , so that no one , without tearing the first envelope , could discover to whom the second was addressed ; then they drew near to each other and smilingly exchanged their letters .
“ An H and an N , surmounted by a baron ’ s coronet. ” “ By heaven , M. Bertuccio , you make use of heraldic terms ; where did you study heraldry ? ” “ In your service , excellency , where everything is learned. ” “ Go on , I am curious to know two things. ” “ What are they , your excellency ? ” “ What became of this little boy ?
We must pierce through the corridor by forming a side opening about the middle , as it were the top part of a cross .
The guard had , in fact , touched the cardinal in the tenderest point .
According to the laws of dueling at that period , D ’ Artagnan was at liberty to assist whom he pleased .
That man made a deep impression on me ; I shall never forget his countenance ! ” 20025m The Englishman smiled imperceptibly .
“ Come , first of all , ” said Athos to D ’ Artagnan , “ my friend , that I may shake hands with you—you , our rescuer—you , the true hero of us all. ” “ Athos is right—you have my adoration , ” said Aramis , in his turn pressing his hand .
Numberless groups paraded the streets and , whatever D ’ Artagnan might think of it , it was obvious that the citizens had for the night laid aside their usual forbearance , in order to assume a warlike aspect .
Go , Edward , and see. ” “ Because they are looking for her where she is not to be found. ” “ And where are they looking for her ? ” “ With grandpapa Noirtier. ” “ And do you think she is not there ? ” “ No , no , no , no , no , she is not there , ” replied Edward , singing his words .
“ The usurper converted ! ” “ Decidedly , my dear duke. ” “ In what way converted ? ” “ To good principles .
Formerly he would have approached the queen as a young man who bends before a woman ; but now it was a different thing ; he answered her summons as an humble soldier obeys an illustrious general .
She extended her hands to him with a smile .
You see , then , Felton , I can do nothing but die .
The daily-renewed promise of the young man that the moment would not long be delayed , had alone kept him in the service of a Musketeer—a service in which , he said , his soul was in constant jeopardy .
The light of day reassured me ; I went and threw myself on the bed , without parting with the emancipating knife , which I concealed under my pillow .
This was M. Morrel ’ s wish also , who would fain have conveyed the old man against his consent ; but the old man resisted , and cried so that they were actually frightened .
The balls might be heard peppering the facade of the Palais Royal , and one of them , passing under D ’ Artagnan ’ s arm , entered and broke a mirror , in which Porthos was complacently admiring himself .
Bonacieux prophesied .
The Ferry across the Oise .
Pale as if he had been gazing on a serpent , he fixed his terrified eye on the agonized sufferer .
“ But do you believe you could arrest the progress of two horses rushing forwards with ungovernable fury ? ” The Nubian smiled .
Hasty actions are generally bad ones .
Communication being closed by the war , I was in want of everything .
If you will permit me , I shall be happy to show you my picture gallery , composed entirely of works by the ancient masters—warranted as such .
“ Thank you , La Ramee , ” said the prisoner .
He then returned to Paris , and although in the same carriage with Château-Renaud and Albert , he did not hear one word of their conversation .
You should install yourself here , and cheer my solitude .
La Carconte then entered her chamber , the flooring of which creaked beneath her heavy , uncertain tread , as she proceeded towards her armchair , into which she fell as though exhausted .
I mean the Russian prince , who you said had 30,000 livres , and we only found 22,000. ” “ You must have searched badly. ” “ Luigi Vampa himself searched. ” “ In that case he must either have paid his debts—— ” “ A Russian do that ? ” “ Or spent the money ? ” “ Possibly , after all. ” “ Certainly .
I will be silent , but you must endure your captivity quietly .
“ My poor friend , I had forgotten you were in love. ” “ Well , but , ” said Aramis , “ have you not learned by the letter you found on the wretched corpse that she is in a convent ?
M. Dessessart , who esteemed D ’ Artagnan , made him offers of help , as this change would entail expenses for equipment .
the president is speaking to the king. ” “ Stuart , ” Bradshaw was saying , “ listen to the roll call of your judges and address to the court any observations you may have to make. ” The king turned his head away , as if these words had not been intended for him .
Bring it to me—or rather—no , no ! —I may be found here , therefore help me back to my room while I have the strength to drag myself along .
You have not returned that visit , and you were wrong. ” “ Monseigneur , I feared I had incurred disgrace with your Eminence. ” “ How could that be , monsieur ?
Of course , we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work .
The jailer was right ; Dantès wanted but little of being utterly mad .
“ To-morrow night we shall rescue you. ” “ How can that be ? ” cried the king , whose face was lighted up , in spite of himself , by a flash of joy .
They will return , ” said D ’ Artagnan .
“ But tell me now , count , ” exclaimed Albert , delighted at the idea of having to chaperon so distinguished a person as Monte Cristo ; “ tell me truly whether you are in earnest , or if this project of visiting Paris is merely one of the chimerical and uncertain air castles of which we make so many in the course of our lives , but which , like a house built on the sand , is liable to be blown over by the first puff of wind ? ” “ I pledge you my honor , ” returned the count , “ that I mean to do as I have said ; both inclination and positive necessity compel me to visit Paris. ” “ When do you propose going thither ? ” “ Have you made up your mind when you shall be there yourself ? ” “ Certainly I have ; in a fortnight or three weeks ’ time , that is to say , as fast as I can get there ! ” “ Nay , ” said the Count ; “ I will give you three months ere I join you ; you see I make an ample allowance for all delays and difficulties .
“ Oliva Corsinari , was it not ? ” “ Oliva Corsinari ! ” “ A marchioness ? ” “ A marchioness ! ” “ And you married her at last , notwithstanding the opposition of her family ? ” “ Yes , that was the way it ended. ” “ And you have doubtless brought all your papers with you ? ” said Monte Cristo .
The steward could not restrain himself .
But here is the letter. ” “ Very well , ” said the prince ; “ give it to me later .
Villefort , closely watching his countenance and his lips , awaited the result of the examination .
With some gentleman who was traveling this way , to whom he proposed a game of _lansquenet_. ” “ That ’ s it , then , and the foolish fellow lost all he had ? ” “ Even to his horse , monsieur ; for when the gentleman was about to set out , we perceived that his lackey was saddling Monsieur Porthos ’ s horse , as well as his master ’ s .
Unfortunately , as he advanced , his anger increased at every step ; and instead of the proper and lofty speech he had prepared as a prelude to his challenge , he found nothing at the tip of his tongue but a gross personality , which he accompanied with a furious gesture .
It might have been said that between this man and his inferiors spoken language did not exist , or had become useless .
Athos was a gentleman , punctilious in points of honor ; and there were in the plan which our lover had devised for Milady , he was sure , certain things that would not obtain the assent of this Puritan .
“ Listen , ” he said ; “ at the end of yonder corridor is a door , of which I have the key , it leads into the park .
The two ladies entered the drawing-room with that sort of official stiffness which preludes a formal communication .
He rode on , convinced that in this direction he would gain intelligence of the fugitive .
“ Help to put me on the bed ; I think I shall feel better there. ” “ Have you any one to depend on for assistance ? ” “ My wife is at Durham and may return at any moment .
not the first prince of the blood , not the king ’ s uncle , but the base conspirator , the soul of every cabal , who pretends to lead the brave people who are weak enough to believe in the honor of a prince of the blood—not the prince nearest to the throne , not the king ’ s uncle , I repeat , but the murderer of Chalais , of Montmorency and of Cinq-Mars , who is playing now the same game he played long ago and who thinks that he will win the game because he has a new adversary—instead of a man who threatened , a man who smiles .
The latter rose from the front of the window , upon the sill of which he had leaned with his elbow , and knitted his brow like a man disquieted .
“ Yes , we will wait , ” replied Valentine , who revived at these words ; “ there are so many things which may save unhappy beings such as we are. ” “ I rely on you , Valentine , ” said Morrel ; “ all you do will be well done ; only if they disregard your prayers , if your father and Madame de Saint-Méran insist that M. d ’ Épinay should be called tomorrow to sign the contract—— ” “ Then you have my promise , Maximilian. ” “ Instead of signing—— ” “ I will go to you , and we will fly ; but from this moment until then , let us not tempt Providence , let us not see each other .
He again arose and went to the door .
M. Noirtier was sitting in an armchair , which moved upon casters , in which he was wheeled into the room in the morning , and in the same way drawn out again at night .
Why , this woman was a monster !
It is in London they must be found. ” “ What are your Eminence ’ s orders ? ” “ Not a word of what has passed .
But I am not selfish , and I thought it might console you all a little to have a share in the matter .
Julie had scarcely recovered from her deep emotion when she rushed out of the room , descended to the next floor , ran into the drawing-room with childlike joy and raised the crystal globe which covered the purse given by the unknown of the Allées de Meilhan .
He had taken the silence of the old man for a return to reason ; and now these few words uttered by Faria , after so painful a crisis , seemed to indicate a serious relapse into mental alienation .
Now , if your mistress is not dead , if it is she we have just seen , you will meet with her again some day or other .
Pistoles have no name , young man , and that ring has a terrible one , which may betray him who wears it. ” “ Sell this ring , a ring which comes from my sovereign ?
One of Marie Michon ’ s Adventures .
But to return to what we were saying .
The regiment of the Guards was recruited among the first gentlemen of the kingdom ; and D ’ Artagnan , followed by a lackey , and traveling with four magnificent horses , despite the simplicity of his uniform , could not fail to make a sensation .
There were only chimeras and illusions ; but for real love , for true jealousy , is there any reality except illusions and chimeras ?
All the rest of the furniture indicated that the dweller in this house occupied himself with the study of natural science .
“ It is a woman ’ s voice , ” cried Aramis ; “ faith , I would give a good deal if she is young and pretty. ” And he mounted on the bench to try and get a sight of her .
1.C .
Tell me , I entreat you , my dear doctor , that you may be deceived. ” “ Doubtless I may , but—— ” “ But ? ” 30345m “ But I do not think so. ” “ Have pity on me doctor !
At this moment the door of the minister ’ s box opened , and Madame Danglars , accompanied by her daughter , entered , escorted by Lucien Debray , who assiduously conducted them to their seats .
I will candidly explain the reason of both , and I trust to your goodness to pardon me .
At this moment the door opened and Madame de Chevreuse was announced .
Such was the man whose carriage had just now stopped before the Count of Monte Cristo ’ s door .
“ ‘ Captain , ’ said he , ‘ just now Carlini would not drink your health when I proposed it to him ; propose mine to him , and let us see if he will be more condescending to you than to me. ’ “ Everyone expected an explosion on Carlini ’ s part ; but to their great surprise , he took a glass in one hand and a flask in the other , and filling it , — “ ‘ Your health , Diavolaccio , ’ said he calmly , and he drank it off , without his hand trembling in the least .
“ Five , ” answered Groslow , “ one every two hours. ” D ’ Artagnan glanced at Athos and Aramis and for the first time replied to Porthos ’ s nudge of the knee by a nudge responsive .
75. ” “ Does your Eminence command that they both be instantly arrested ? ” “ It will be too late ; they will be gone. ” “ But still , we can make sure that they are so. ” “ Take ten men of my Guardsmen , and search the two houses thoroughly. ” “ Instantly , monseigneur. ” And Rochefort went hastily out of the apartment .
They ordered the lackeys not to unsaddle the horses , and to hold themselves in readiness to set off again immediately .
I have the purse still by me—a large one , made of red silk. ” “ And , ” asked the abbé , “ is M. Morrel still alive ? ” “ Yes , ” replied Caderousse .
The Morrel Family In a very few minutes the count reached No .
“ ‘ Has the daughter of Ali Tepelini spoken the truth ? ’ said the president .
She then turned to the right , followed the course of a long corridor , descended a flight , went a few steps farther , introduced a key into a lock , opened a door , and pushed the duke into an apartment lighted only by a lamp , saying , “ Remain here , my Lord Duke ; someone will come. ” She then went out by the same door , which she locked , so that the duke found himself literally a prisoner .
“ Or dreamed he was , and awoke mad. ” “ After all , ” said the inspector , “ if he had been rich , he would not have been here. ” So the matter ended for the Abbé Faria .
What is it to me , who have passed twenty years between life and death ?
He will wear on his doublet twelve diamond studs ; get as near to him as you can , and cut off two .
“ He is reduced almost to the last extremity—nay , he is almost at the point of dishonor. ” “ How ? ” “ Yes , ” continued Caderousse , “ so it is ; after five-and-twenty years of labor , after having acquired a most honorable name in the trade of Marseilles , M. Morrel is utterly ruined ; he has lost five ships in two years , has suffered by the bankruptcy of three large houses , and his only hope now is in that very _Pharaon_ which poor Dantès commanded , and which is expected from the Indies with a cargo of cochineal and indigo .
The Abbé D ’ Herblay .
“ Eh , no !
It was at this moment that people came flocking to the scene of action from all sides .
He found that he was in a grotto , went towards the opening , and through a kind of fanlight saw a blue sea and an azure sky .
She stopped in the doorway , listened for a moment to the flickering of the lamp , the only sound in that deserted room , and then advanced to the table to see if Valentine ’ s glass were empty .
Well , I was a million in advance with him , and now my fine Jacopo Manfredi suspends payment ! ” “ Really ? ” “ It is an unheard-of fatality .
Monsieur your friend ( pardon for not calling him by the honorable name which no doubt he bears , but we do not know that name ) , Monsieur your friend , having disabled two men with his pistols , retreated fighting with his sword , with which he disabled one of my men , and stunned me with a blow of the flat side of it. ” “ You villain , will you finish ? ” cried D ’ Artagnan , “ Athos—what has become of Athos ? ” “ While fighting and retreating , as I have told Monseigneur , he found the door of the cellar stairs behind him , and as the door was open , he took out the key , and barricaded himself inside .
But then all this extravagance is not for myself , ” added Athos , laughing .
But after the searching look of the king he encountered the burning eyes of Aramis .
“ You know that I am as capable of managing a ship as the most experienced captain in the service ; and it will be so far advantageous to you to accept my services , that upon Edmond ’ s release from prison no further change will be requisite on board the _Pharaon_ than for Dantès and myself each to resume our respective posts. ” “ Thanks , Danglars—that will smooth over all difficulties .
Although I don ’ t despise sweet things in proper time and place , I found the supper rather light. ” “ Poor fellow ! ” said D ’ Artagnan .
The Château d ’ If Chapter 9 .
this is modesty indeed ! ” cried D ’ Artagnan .
The guards looked on it with indifference .
One of the windows was broken , the door of the chamber had been beaten in and hung , split in two , on its hinges .
It is better to have a blazon less and a figure more on it .
Then remarking the strange expression of Milady ’ s countenance , she said , “ Pardon me , madame ; you know him by what title ? ” “ Why , ” replied Milady , embarrassed , “ why , by the title of friend. ” “ You deceive me , madame , ” said the novice ; “ you have been his mistress ! ” “ It is you who have been his mistress , madame ! ” cried Milady , in her turn .
And yet he reckoned , and with reason , on Milady .
I don ’ t know much about it , ” said Athos .
Andrea , on whose arm hung one of the most consummate dandies of the Opera , was explaining to him rather cleverly , since he was obliged to be bold to appear at ease , his future projects , and the new luxuries he meant to introduce to Parisian fashions with his hundred and seventy-five thousand livres per annum .
“ We were beginning to grow impatient , ” said Athos .
Athos recognized Grimaud .
“ What do you say to a thousand crowns ? ” D ’ Artagnan pouted out his lower lip in a most extraordinary manner .
But on this occasion the precaution was superfluous , and everything proceeded with the utmost smoothness and politeness .
Better study a little common prudence .
Château-Renaud contented himself with tapping his boot with his flexible cane .
Near the camp you might be recognized ; and your presence , you must be aware , would compromise the cardinal. ” “ Then I must wait here , or in the neighborhood ? ” “ Only tell me beforehand where you will wait for intelligence from the cardinal ; let me know always where to find you. ” “ Observe , it is probable that I may not be able to remain here. ” “ Why ? ” “ You forget that my enemies may arrive at any minute. ” “ That ’ s true ; but is this little woman , then , to escape his Eminence ? ” “ Bah ! ” said Milady , with a smile that belonged only to herself ; “ you forget that I am her best friend. ” “ Ah , that ’ s true !
“ Allow me , then , to pass on , since it is not with me you have anything to do. ” “ You are right , monsieur , it is not with you that I have anything to do ; it is with Madame. ” “ With Madame !
We who have faced fifty foes on the high road can well meet two in the Place Royale. ” “ Yes , yes , but they took part with the princes without apprising us of it .
THE DROP OF WATER Rochefort had scarcely departed when Mme .
Keep the 50,000 francs you have left—I give them to you .
“ To your house , dear Porthos , at Pierrefonds ; your fine chateau is worthy of affording its princely hospitality to his eminence ; it is , likewise , well situated—neither too near Paris , nor too far from it ; we can establish a communication between it and the capital with great facility .
50109m “ Certainly , ” he said , “ your receipt is money. ” “ Oh dear , yes ; and if you were at Rome , the house of Thomson & French would make no more difficulty about paying the money on my receipt than you have just done. ” “ Pardon me , count , pardon me. ” “ Then I may keep this money ? ” “ Yes , ” said Danglars , while the perspiration started from the roots of his hair .
As a soldier the man ranks well ; he did his whole duty and even more , at the siege of Rochelle—as at Suze and Perpignan. ” “ But you know , Guitant , we poor ministers often want men with other qualities besides courage ; we want men of talent .
“ ‘ No , ’ said Caderousse , ‘ we are not rich enough to lose 5,000 francs. ’ “ ‘ As you please , my dear sir , ’ said the jeweller ; ‘ I had , however , as you see , brought you the money in bright coin. ’ And he drew from his pocket a handful of gold , and held it sparkling before the dazzled eyes of the innkeeper , and in the other hand he held a packet of bank-notes .
let me look at that sapphire again ; the one I mentioned to you had one of its faces scratched by accident. ” D ’ Artagnan took off the ring , giving it again to Athos .
“ We have the gates. ” “ The gates !
The bolts were drawn ; the door groaned upon its hinges .
“ And Aramis , ” said the duchess , quickly .
“ I won back your harness , then your horse , then my harness , then my horse , and then I lost again .
My father was endeavoring to pierce with his eager looks the remotest verge of the horizon , examining attentively every black speck which appeared on the lake , while my mother , reclining by his side , rested her head on his shoulder , and I played at his feet , admiring everything I saw with that unsophisticated innocence of childhood which throws a charm round objects insignificant in themselves , but which in its eyes are invested with the greatest importance .
On the other hand , the symptoms may be much more violent , and cause me to fall into fearful convulsions , foam at the mouth , and cry out loudly .
Only take care that I am not seen through the wicket. ” “ Oh , it is a proof that the Lord is on our side , Felton , ” replied Milady .
One of his peculiarities was never to speak a word of French , which he however wrote with great facility. ” The day after this important information had been given to the king ’ s attorney , a man alighted from a carriage at the corner of the Rue Férou , and rapping at an olive-green door , asked if the Abbé Busoni were within .
The young man uttered a cry , and fell by the side of his mistress as pale and as icy as herself .
will you permit a grandson of Henry IV .
“ No , madame , ” replied Monte Cristo ; “ but you see I make no resistance. ” “ We are going to the greenhouse that you see at the other end of the grove. ” The count looked at Mercédès as if to interrogate her , but she continued to walk on in silence , and he refrained from speaking .
“ Yes. ” “ You have a recipe for it ? ” “ An infallible one. ” “ That would be invaluable to us in Africa , who have not always any food to eat , and rarely anything to drink. ” “ Yes , ” said Monte Cristo ; “ but , unfortunately , a recipe excellent for a man like myself would be very dangerous applied to an army , which might not awake when it was needed. ” “ May we inquire what is this recipe ? ” asked Debray .
You are laughing at him , Caderousse. ” “ No , ” he replied , “ only hark how he sighs !
No , it is not existence , then , that I regret , but the ruin of projects so slowly carried out , so laboriously framed .
The queen appeared cheerful and happy , which seemed to astonish the persons who surrounded her and who were accustomed to see her almost always sad and full of care .
At this moment Danglars , who had been incessantly observing every change in Fernand ’ s look and manner , saw him stagger and fall back , with an almost convulsive spasm , against a seat placed near one of the open windows .
“ Oh , continue ! ” said the duchess .
“ Gentlemen , ” said he , “ if Monsieur d ’ Artagnan will surrender his sword to me and join his word to yours , I shall be satisfied with your promise to convey Monsieur d ’ Artagnan to the quarters of Monseigneur the Cardinal. ” “ You have my word , monsieur , and here is my sword. ” “ This suits me the better , ” said Rochefort , “ as I wish to continue my journey. ” “ If it is for the purpose of rejoining Milady , ” said Athos , coolly , “ it is useless ; you will not find her. ” “ What has become of her , then ? ” asked Rochefort , eagerly .
Fernand understood nothing except that Dantès was absent .
Is he some minister out of office ? ” “ Oh , no , not at all , vicomte , ” Athos replied ; “ he is simply a gentleman of great genius who has fallen into disgrace with the cardinal through having written certain verses against him. ” “ Do gentlemen , then , make verses ? ” asked Raoul , naively , “ I thought it was derogatory. ” “ So it is , my dear vicomte , ” said Athos , laughing , “ to make bad ones ; but to make good ones increases fame—witness Monsieur de Rotrou .
Fight the more for duels being forbidden , since consequently there is twice as much courage in fighting .
Well , within a week I am to deposit four millions for my share ; the four millions , I promise you , will produce ten or twelve. ” “ But during my visit to you the day before yesterday , sir , which you appear to recollect so well , ” replied Eugénie , “ I saw you arranging a deposit—is not that the term ? —of five millions and a half ; you even pointed it out to me in two drafts on the treasury , and you were astonished that so valuable a paper did not dazzle my eyes like lightning. ” “ Yes , but those five millions and a half are not mine , and are only a proof of the great confidence placed in me ; my title of popular banker has gained me the confidence of charitable institutions , and the five millions and a half belong to them ; at any other time I should not have hesitated to make use of them , but the great losses I have recently sustained are well known , and , as I told you , my credit is rather shaken .
“ They are at the door harnessed to the carriage as your excellency desired .
“ Since that time many things have happened to you .
“ Ah , ” said Morcerf , “ there goes a happy man ! ” And it so happened Albert was not mistaken in his opinion .
My friendship for him is as strange and unaccountable as his for me .
The king looked towards him .
died , poisoned , —you know by what mistake .
“ I am in possession of all my senses , sir , ” he said ; “ my body alone suffers , as you may suppose .
This morning , being ignorant that I should have the honor of seeing your majesty , I encumbered myself with this dress , but you will find me none the less a man devoted to your majesty ’ s service , in whatever way you may see fit to use me. ” “ The Abbé d ’ Herblay , ” resumed De Winter , “ is one of those gallant musketeers formerly belonging to His Majesty King Louis XIII. , of whom I have spoken to you , madame. ” Then turning to Athos , he continued , “ And this gentleman is that noble Comte de la Fere , whose high reputation is so well known to your majesty. ” “ Gentlemen , ” said the queen , “ a few years ago I had around me ushers , treasures , armies ; and by the lifting of a finger all these were busied in my service .
A benefit reproached is an offense committed. ” “ The devil ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ you are insupportable .
“ What ! ” cried Porthos , “ are we all going away , then ?
This harsh letter , coming as it did from a man generally so polite and respectful , struck a mortal blow at the pride of Villefort .
“ She is not to leave this chamber , understand , John , ” continued the baron .
It is for me , then , to interrogate Grimaud. ” “ Where is she ? ” asked Athos .
Come , take a little oath for me on the cross ; I won ’ t ask anything more of you. ’ “ ‘ On the cross , ’ cried I , rising , for at that abhorred voice I had recovered all my strength , ‘ on the cross I swear that no promise , no menace , no force , no torture , shall close my mouth !
“ He has seen him , ” said Athos , in a low tone , to Aramis .
All this savors of his Eminence , a league off. ” “ But what is to be done ? ” said D ’ Artagnan .
What does scandal signify to me ?
Oh , how feverish you are ; we must not send for a notary , but for a doctor ! ” “ A doctor ? ” said she , shrugging her shoulders , “ I am not ill ; I am thirsty—that is all. ” 30323m “ What are you drinking , dear grandmamma ? ” “ The same as usual , my dear , my glass is there on the table—give it to me , Valentine. ” Valentine poured the orangeade into a glass and gave it to her grandmother with a certain degree of dread , for it was the same glass she fancied that had been touched by the spectre .
“ Here , excellency , ” said Peppino , offering him a little blunt knife and a boxwood fork .
“ It is for you , ” replied a gendarme .
My labor is all in vain , for I find that the corridor looks into a courtyard filled with soldiers. ” “ That ’ s true , ” said Dantès ; “ but the corridor you speak of only bounds _one_ side of my cell ; there are three others—do you know anything of their situation ? ” “ This one is built against the solid rock , and it would take ten experienced miners , duly furnished with the requisite tools , as many years to perforate it .
and , were he able , he would rather tear him to pieces with his teeth and nails than let him enjoy the life he himself is about to be deprived of .
It will be even more difficult to descend. ” D ’ Artagnan was about to assure Aramis that he could descend easily , when an idea came into his head which silenced him .
my dear D ’ Herblay ! ” “ Who can say whether D ’ Artagnan may not have betrayed us to the cardinal ?
“ Will you come ? ” said he to Porthos .
“ I certainly think you act wisely in so doing , ” said the priest .
to do with you , my lord ? ” inquired Aramis .
Aramis then reperused the letter , and perceived a postscript : PS .
Yes , you are right , Maximilian , I will follow you .
Bazin obeyed , fastened to the end of a cord the three articles designated and let them down to Planchet , who then went satisfied to his shed .
He hastened to his cabinet .
“ How much did the Jew say he would give for the sapphire if he purchased it ? ” said Athos .
The state , which is now threatened , would be safe , and you— ” “ And I ? ” “ Well you—the cardinal would have given you letters of nobility. ” “ Did he tell you so ? ” “ Yes , I know that he meant to afford you that agreeable surprise. ” “ Be satisfied , ” replied Bonacieux ; “ my wife adores me , and there is yet time. ” “ The ninny ! ” murmured Mme .
Never a mistake or delay—a fellow who paid like a prince .
“ She is there , ” said he .
At thirty-five , which was then his age , he passed , with just title , for the handsomest gentleman and the most elegant cavalier of France or England .
“ You are ungrateful , D ’ Artagnan , ” said Athos ; “ yes , ungrateful to Providence , to whom we owe our safety in the most miraculous manner .
Boulogne was a strong position , then almost a deserted town , built entirely on the heights ; what is now called the lower town did not then exist .
punctuality !
And she assumed , upon sitting up in the armchair , a still more graceful and abandoned position than when she reclined .
However , as far as Ali is concerned , I can assure you , the interest he excites is merely from the circumstance of his being your attendant—you , who are at this moment the most celebrated and fashionable person in Paris. ” “ Really ?
“ I thought that we were finally quit of Monsieur de Beaufort. ” “ Yes , you saw only the torrent that threatened to overturn everything and you gave no attention to the still water .
The antechamber was full of police agents and gendarmes , in the midst of whom , carefully watched , but calm and smiling , stood the prisoner .
“ That woman was once a young girl , as beautiful as she is today .
“ No , sir , ” replied Anne of Austria , “ and you may retire until the time that I mentioned to you. ” D ’ Artagnan bowed and went out .
“ My dear M. de Villefort , ” replied the doctor , with a tone which redoubled the terror of the young man , “ I have not led you here to console you ; on the contrary—— ” “ What can you mean ? ” asked the procureur , alarmed .
I saw a white figure , and as if to prevent my discrediting the testimony of only one of my senses , I heard my glass removed—the same which is there now on the table. ” “ Oh , dear mother , it was a dream. ” “ So little was it a dream , that I stretched my hand towards the bell ; but when I did so , the shade disappeared ; my maid then entered with a light. ” “ But she saw no one ? ” “ Phantoms are visible to those only who ought to see them .
On entering the court of his hôtel , Buckingham sprang from his horse , and without thinking what became of the animal , threw the bridle on his neck , and sprang toward the vestibule .
Patrick uttered a loud cry .
“ Who has displeased you ?
But this favor which you bestow upon me I do not merit .
Take my arm , and let us go. ” D ’ Artagnan offered his arm to Mme .
That night brought together all those comrades of the Guards of M. Dessessart and the company of Musketeers of M. de Tréville who had been accustomed to associate together .
The lower part of his dress was more distinctly visible by the bright rays of the moon , which , entering through the broken ceiling , shed their refulgent beams on feet cased in elegantly made boots of polished leather , over which descended fashionably cut trousers of black cloth .
“ Take some more wine , my dear Cavalcanti , ” said the count , pouring out for him a second glass of Alicante ; “ your emotion has quite overcome you. ” “ His poor mother , ” murmured the major , trying to get the lachrymal gland in operation , so as to moisten the corner of his eye with a false tear .
a fine prize , friend Mordaunt ; we have both myself and Monsieur du Vallon , taken two Knights of the Garter , nothing less. ” “ But , ” said Mordaunt , looking at Athos and Aramis with bloodshot eyes , “ these are Frenchmen , I imagine. ” “ I ’ faith , I don ’ t know .
If you are not located in the United States , you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook .
D ’ ARTAGNAN AND THE ENGLISHMAN Chapter XXXI .
She has been dead a year , and you know , Fernand , I have subsisted almost entirely on public charity .
“ Are these persons , then , so rich and powerful ? ” “ Do you not know their history ? ” “ I do not .
The young man saw the effect produced on his betrothed , and a smile of pride passed over his lips .
D ’ Artagnan picked up two or three old sails hung on the walls , and meeting nothing to suspect , regained by the hatchway the deck of the vessel .
“ It is impossible it can be she , ” said he .
He will never see you again ; all is over .
The four others were French and wore the uniform of musketeers. ” “ Their names ? ” asked the monk .
The count advanced to meet him .
Morrel could not resist this ; he was not exemplary for piety , he was not easily impressed , but Valentine suffering , weeping , wringing her hands before him , was more than he could bear in silence .
“ What !
I should never have the courage to come down again. ” “ Ah , this one is not like the other , and his madness is less affecting than this one ’ s display of reason. ” “ What is his folly ? ” “ He fancies he possesses an immense treasure .
You think that it was a good deed to kill my brother , who was a Bonapartist , because you are a royalist .
I kiss your hands .
Had Valentine fainted ?
The night having come they made an appointment to meet at eleven o ’ clock at the hotel , and each started out to fulfill his dangerous mission .
“ Yes , monsieur , I know only him. ” “ Well , but then , ” continued Athos , speaking half to himself , “ if I kill you , I shall have the air of a boy-slayer. ” “ Not too much so , ” replied D ’ Artagnan , with a bow that was not deficient in dignity , “ since you do me the honor to draw a sword with me while suffering from a wound which is very inconvenient. ” “ Very inconvenient , upon my word ; and you hurt me devilishly , I can tell you .
“ I am sure I am the first , ” cried Morrel ; “ I did it on purpose to have you a minute to myself , before everyone came .
“ So much the better .
how did you penetrate hither ?
What , above all , manifested the shrewdness of the steward , and the profound science of the master , the one in carrying out the ideas of the other , was that this house which appeared only the night before so sad and gloomy , impregnated with that sickly smell one can almost fancy to be the smell of time , had in a single day acquired the aspect of life , was scented with its master ’ s favorite perfumes , and had the very light regulated according to his wish .
My father has not yet forgotten me , I am sure , but God alone knows if she loves me still ; I shall love you as I loved my father. ” “ It is well , ” returned the voice ; “ tomorrow. ” These few words were uttered with an accent that left no doubt of his sincerity ; Dantès rose , dispersed the fragments with the same precaution as before , and pushed his bed back against the wall .
I must speak to him about it. ” As to Athos , his face aflame , his fists clinched , his lips bitten till they bled , he sat there foaming with rage at that endless parliamentary insult and that long enduring royal patience ; the inflexible arm and steadfast heart had given place to a trembling hand and a body shaken by excitement .
“ It is likely , ” he replied , “ that we shall soon be obliged to separate , unless you love me well enough to follow me to Italy. ” “ Why , ” cried the queen ; “ how is that ? ” “ Because , as they say in the opera of ‘ Thisbe , ’ ‘ The whole world conspires to break our bonds. ’ ” “ You jest , sir ! ” answered the queen , endeavoring to assume something of her former dignity .
He had not seen Morrel .
I used to learn all these feat by heart yonder , down at Pierrefonds , and I have done all that he did except breaking a cord by the corrugation of my temples. ” “ Because your strength is not in your head , Porthos , ” said his friend .
“ Doctor , doctor ! ” cried Barrois , who felt another fit coming .
Are you waiting for him underneath these windows ?
You saw the child pass through the Rue Richelieu last year , who amused himself with killing his brothers and sisters by sticking pins in their ears while they slept .
As I look at it , a millionth part of a railway is worth fully as much as an acre of waste land on the banks of the Ohio .
It was easy to discover that the delicate care of a mother , unwilling to part from her son , and yet aware that a young man of the viscount ’ s age required the full exercise of his liberty , had chosen this habitation for Albert .
“ Hey ? ” said the cardinal , opening the door .
I have the price ; ” and D ’ Artagnan threw the bag upon the table .
• You provide , in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3 , a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy , if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work .
You at least will be faithful to me , Arthur. ” The horse , as if it understood these words , bent its red nostrils toward the king ’ s face , and parting his lips displayed all its teeth , as if with pleasure .
D ’ Artagnan translated this for the others .
I am no relation of yours. ” “ You are my son , Dantès , ” exclaimed the old man .
Thus the count was halfway turned towards his visitor , having his back towards the window , his elbow resting on the geographical chart which furnished the theme of conversation for the moment , —a conversation which assumed , as in the case of the interviews with Danglars and Morcerf , a turn analogous to the persons , if not to the situation .
The Pardon The next day Danglars was again hungry ; certainly the air of that dungeon was very provocative of appetite .
However , as he was a favorite with Cucumetto , as he had for three years faithfully served him , and as he had saved his life by shooting a dragoon who was about to cut him down , he hoped the chief would have pity on him .
“ We must seize the felucca , ” said Aramis .
Gentlemen , I am young , scarcely twenty-three years old .
At this instant the minister of police appeared at the door , pale , trembling , and as if ready to faint .
After approaching Milady with a slow and solemn step , so that the table alone separated them , the unknown took off his mask .
The first opportunity you have , undeceive him , I beg , and tell him I am nothing of the kind. ” Franz smiled ; an instant after the count entered .
Villefort drew back , and clasping his hands together , exclaimed : “ Dead ! —so suddenly ? ” “ A week ago , ” continued Madame de Saint-Méran , “ we went out together in the carriage after dinner .
And Mazarin buried himself so far behind the two friends that he disappeared , completely hidden between them .
He concluded by calling for an investigation , which might dispose of the calumnious report before it had time to spread , and restore M. de Morcerf to the position he had long held in public opinion .
God will help you. ” “ Gentlemen , in the name of Heaven ! ” said the wounded man , collecting all his forces , as if to get up , “ let us not lose time in useless words .
It is not just that he should despise me so , without any reason .
Wait an instant , my friend , and you shall be satisfied .
There is one in particular which he prefers in his journeys , large enough to hold all the world. ” “ Your valise is then empty ? ” asked Porthos , with simplicity .
“ Perhaps so .
To-morrow we shall retake Lens and beat the enemy. ” Then , turning toward Raoul : “ Go , monsieur , ” he said ; “ ride fast and give this letter to Monsieur de Grammont. ” Raoul bowed , took the letter , went hastily down the mountain , leaped on his horse and set out at a gallop .
The next morning he gathered an armful of pieces of slate and began .
I said nothing , for we must have peace in the house ; and 100,000 francs for a lady and gentleman to be properly instructed in music and dancing are not too much .
Reflect upon it. ” D ’ Artagnan did reflect , and resolved to thrash Planchet provisionally ; which he did with the conscientiousness that D ’ Artagnan carried into everything .
Mazarin , thinking that it would be the means of increasing the zeal of his two defenders if he procured them personal thanks from the queen , motioned them to follow him .
It was almost a triumphal procession ; only , behind the guards the barricades were closed again .
“ Alas !
“ This is all very fine , dear Aramis , ” murmured D ’ Artagnan .
You are not a priest , you are a Musketeer ! ” “ A Musketeer for a time , my friend , as the cardinal says , a Musketeer against my will , but a churchman at heart , believe me .
“ You had only read a line or two , ” said D ’ Artagnan ; “ read the letter again from the commencement. ” “ Willingly , ” said Aramis .
That is all very simple : you had business in England. ” “ Monseigneur , ” said D ’ Artagnan , quite confused , “ I went— ” “ Hunting at Windsor , or elsewhere—that concerns nobody .
“ Quick to the Louvre , ” said he , “ to the Louvre without losing an instant , and let us endeavor to see the king before he is prejudiced by the cardinal .
M. de Tréville never jested in matters relating to discipline .
The four friends followed him .
The three men brought the carriage up quietly , and took out of it a little man , stout , short , elderly , and commonly dressed in clothes of a dark color , who ascended the ladder very carefully , looked suspiciously in at the window of the pavilion , came down as quietly as he had gone up , and whispered , ‘ It is she ! ’ Immediately , he who had spoken to me approached the door of the pavilion , opened it with a key he had in his hand , closed the door and disappeared , while at the same time the other two men ascended the ladder .
“ Then , as in leaving the cabaret they took different directions , my brother went and hid himself on the road of the Catholic , and I on that of the Huguenot .
D ’ Artagnan would fain have declared that he was not fatigued , but Athos insisted on his retiring to his chamber , conducted thither by Raoul .
“ Where ? ” stammered Morcerf .
Monsieur d ’ Artagnan is a young man , scarcely nineteen or twenty , and this gentleman must be thirty at least .
Monte Cristo took her hand and imprinted a kiss on it ; but she herself felt that it was a kiss of no greater warmth than he would have bestowed on the hand of some marble statue of a saint .
Kitty , who was to set out that evening for Tours , was waiting in the next chamber .
He ’ s not going to hunt , for he has neither dogs nor arms ; he ’ s not going on a message , for he goes secretly .
The queen had confidence in the courage of D ’ Artagnan , which she knew , and the cardinal in the strength of Porthos , which he had experienced .
“ In Paris ? ” “ Yes. ” Athos and Aramis looked at each other .
When you return to this mundane sphere from your visionary world , you would seem to leave a Neapolitan spring for a Lapland winter—to quit paradise for earth—heaven for hell !
“ Yes , honest—I can certainly say that much for myself , ” continued the innkeeper , fairly sustaining the scrutiny of the abbé ’ s gaze ; “ I can boast with truth of being an honest man ; and , ” continued he significantly , with a hand on his breast and shaking his head , “ that is more than everyone can say nowadays. ” 0327m “ So much the better for you , if what you assert be true , ” said the abbé ; “ for I am firmly persuaded that , sooner or later , the good will be rewarded , and the wicked punished. ” “ Such words as those belong to your profession , ” answered Caderousse , “ and you do well to repeat them ; but , ” added he , with a bitter expression of countenance , “ one is free to believe them or not , as one pleases. ” “ You are wrong to speak thus , ” said the abbé ; “ and perhaps I may , in my own person , be able to prove to you how completely you are in error. ” “ What mean you ? ” inquired Caderousse with a look of surprise .
In my opinion the people are right ; and cheerfully would I give up five years of my pay—which I am never paid , by the way—to make the king five years older. ” “ Really !
It was necessary to reach M. de Tréville ; it was important that he should be informed of what was passing .
“ Foreigner ! ” he ejaculated , “ Italian !
He was thinking of Mme .
“ Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and Count Andrea Cavalcanti , ” announced Baptistin .
Juxon turned to those present and begged them to leave him and his assistant alone with the king .
These were the first tears the man of blood had ever wept .
Morrel , I thank you in the name of my father and of Mercédès. ” “ That ’ s all right , Edmond .
“ You have already answered the question once , but so vaguely that I venture to put it a second time. ” “ Really , ” said Albert , “ I do not know ; when I invited him three months ago , he was then at Rome , but since that time who knows where he may have gone ? ” “ And you think him capable of being exact ? ” demanded Debray .
“ But , ” said Monte Cristo “ do you not know any cause for this hatred ? ” “ Ah , _ma foi ! _ who is to know ? ” “ Perhaps it is some political difference ? ” “ My father and the Baron d ’ Épinay lived in the stormy times of which I only saw the ending , ” said Villefort .
The cardinal looked at him with a cunning rather than serious glance , yet he examined his countenance with attention and after a momentary silence said : “ You are Monsieur d ’ Artagnan ? ” “ I am that individual , ” replied the officer .
“ Because , ” said Debray , “ Albert sent this morning to request us to come. ” Beauchamp and Château-Renaud exchanged looks of astonishment .
Milady looked at this man , and hesitated .
“ No cardinal ! ” said D ’ Artagnan , “ but only his lantern ; where the devil , then , is he ? ” Exploring , however , one of the side wings of the gallery , after making a sign to Porthos to explore the other , he saw , all at once , at his left , a tub containing an orange tree , which had been pushed out of its place and in its place an open aperture .
Then I launched out into the path that was opened to me .
